Potential SolarWinds Orion compromise | Cyber.gov.au Skip to main content Australian Government - Australian cyber security centre Menu Report Search Contact us Portal login Megamenu Individuals & Families Individuals and families Practical steps to keep yourself and your family secure About this section Have you been hacked? About this section Report a cybercrime Step-by-Step Guides Common cyber threats Easy steps to stay secure Personal security guides Protect yourself and your family Quick wins Recover and get help Subscribe to the ACSC alert service View all content Small & Medium Businesses Small & medium businesses How to protect your business and staff from common cyber threats About this section Have you been hacked? About this section Report a cybercrime Step-by-Step Guides Getting your business back up and running Protecting your business online Quick Wins Register for products and services Securing your business tools Small Business Cyber Security Guide Small Business Survey results First Nations business resources View all content Organisations & Critical Infrastructure Organisations & Critical Infrastructure Understand how to protect your organisation from cyber threats About this section About this section Report a cyber security incident Become an ACSC partner Critical infrastructure Large organisations Operational technology Alerts & advisories Programs Information Security Manual Strategies to Mitigate Cyber Security Incidents Essential Eight Publications Cloud Security Guidance View all content Government Government Strategies to protect your organisation from cyber threats About this section About this section Report a cyber security incident Become an ACSC partner Alerts & advisories Programs Information Security Manual Strategies to Mitigate Cyber Security Incidents Essential Eight Publications Guidance Cloud security guidance Cyber supply chain guidance Email hardening guidance Gateway and Cross Domain Solution guidance Governance guidance Miscellaneous guidance Operational technology guidance People-centred guidance Remote working guidance Secure mobility guidance System administration guidance System hardening guidance System monitoring guidance Web hardening guidance View all content Learn Learn Interactive tools and advice to boost your online safety Learn cyber security Sign up for alerts Explore topics Update your devices Set up and perform regular backups Turn on multi-factor authentication Set secure passphrases Recognise and report scams Watch out for threats View resources Glossary Resources library Quiz library Translated Information Contact us Report a cybercrime or cyber security incident Portal login Australian Cyber Security Hotline 1300 CYBER1 (1300 292 371) Potential SolarWinds Orion compromise You are here Home About the ACSC View all content View all alerts Potential SolarWinds Orion compromise FireEye identifies global campaign leveraging malicious updates to SolarWinds software. Alert status HIGH Background On 14 December 2020, the ACSC issued an initial alert regarding potential compromise of the SolarWinds Orion software. This alert was informed by an announcement from cyber security company FireEye , who were monitoring a global intrusion campaign linked to compromise of the SolarWinds Orion software supply chain. Update As of 25 January 2021, the ACSC has received a number of reports from Australian organisations notifying that they were operating vulnerable versions of SolarWinds Orion. To date, no follow-on compromise of an Australian organisation through SolarWinds Orion has been identified. The compromise of the supply chain meant that that organisations that were running SolarWinds Orion may have inadvertently installed malicious additions through normal update processes. The malicious software (malware) associated with the supply chain compromise is being referred to as SUNBURST. Following the identification of SUNBURST, additional malware associated with the SolarWinds Orion supply chain compromise has been identified. These are commonly being referred to as TEARDROP and RAINDROP and have been identified during investigations of follow-on compromises of affected organisations. During investigations of the supply chain compromise, additional malware targeting SolarWinds Orion was identified. This second set of malicious software is being referred to as SUPERNOVA . The SUPERNOVA malware is not believed to be related to the supply chain compromise, instead targeting an unrelated vulnerability in SolarWinds Orion. Mitigation SolarWinds have identified the vulnerabilities exploited by the compromise and issued patches for affected SolarWinds Orion versions. Accordingly, ACSC’s recommendation for mitigating potentially vulnerable versions of SolarWinds Orion is to apply the latest patches from SolarWinds as soon as possible. This recommendation applies to mitigate against both the SUNBURST and SUPERNOVA malware . If immediate patching is not possible, the ACSC recommends vulnerable SolarWinds Orion instances be isolated from the internet and internal network connections minimised. Additional information and supporting tools The US Cyber security and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) has published a number of alerts regarding detection and mitigation of potential compromises of SolarWinds Orion , including CISA and third-party tools that may aid in the detection of follow-on compromise through SolarWinds. Additionally, the ACSC encourages all organisations to continually assess and apply the Essential Eight strategies to protect their systems. Assistance The ACSC is monitoring the situation and is able to provide assistance and advice as required. Organisations that have been impacted or require assistance can contact the ACSC via 1300 CYBER1. Content written for Individuals & families Small & medium businesses Organisations & critical infrastructure Government View all content First published: 14 Dec 2020 Last updated: 25 Jan 2021 Share on Was this information helpful? Was this information helpful? Yes No Thanks for your feedback! Thanks for your feedback! Optional Tell us why this information was helpful and we’ll work on making more pages like it Report a cyber security incident for critical infrastructure Get alerts on new threats Alert Service Become an ACSC partner Report a cybercrime or cyber security incident About the ACSC News & Alerts View all content Contact us Accessibility Copyright Disclaimer Privacy Australian Cyber Security Hotline 1300 CYBER1 (1300 292 371) Authorised by the Australian Government, Canberra Back to top