Multiple vulnerabilities present in F5 products | Cyber.gov.au Skip to main content Australian Government - Australian cyber security centre Menu Report Search Contact us Portal login Megamenu Individuals & Families Individuals and families Practical steps to keep yourself and your family secure About this section Have you been hacked? About this section Report a cybercrime Step-by-Step Guides Common cyber threats Easy steps to stay secure Personal security guides Protect yourself and your family Quick wins Recover and get help Subscribe to the ACSC alert service View all content Small & Medium Businesses Small & medium businesses How to protect your business and staff from common cyber threats About this section Have you been hacked? About this section Report a cybercrime Step-by-Step Guides Getting your business back up and running Protecting your business online Quick Wins Register for products and services Securing your business tools Small Business Cyber Security Guide Small Business Survey results First Nations business resources View all content Organisations & Critical Infrastructure Organisations & Critical Infrastructure Understand how to protect your organisation from cyber threats About this section About this section Report a cyber security incident Become an ACSC partner Critical infrastructure Large organisations Operational technology Alerts & advisories Programs Information Security Manual Strategies to Mitigate Cyber Security Incidents Essential Eight Publications Cloud Security Guidance View all content Government Government Strategies to protect your organisation from cyber threats About this section About this section Report a cyber security incident Become an ACSC partner Alerts & advisories Programs Information Security Manual Strategies to Mitigate Cyber Security Incidents Essential Eight Publications Guidance Cloud security guidance Cyber supply chain guidance Email hardening guidance Gateway and Cross Domain Solution guidance Governance guidance Miscellaneous guidance Operational technology guidance People-centred guidance Remote working guidance Secure mobility guidance System administration guidance System hardening guidance System monitoring guidance Web hardening guidance View all content Learn Learn Interactive tools and advice to boost your online safety Learn cyber security Sign up for alerts Explore topics Update your devices Set up and perform regular backups Turn on multi-factor authentication Set secure passphrases Recognise and report scams Watch out for threats View resources Glossary Resources library Quiz library Translated Information Contact us Report a cybercrime or cyber security incident Portal login Australian Cyber Security Hotline 1300 CYBER1 (1300 292 371) Multiple vulnerabilities present in F5 products You are here Home About the ACSC View all content View all alerts Multiple vulnerabilities present in F5 products The ACSC is aware of a F5 Security Advisory Addressing Multiple Vulnerabilities in their BIG-IP Product Range. Affected Australian organisations should take appropriate action. Alert status HIGH Update This is an update to an Alert the ACSC issued on 09 May 2022. Multiple Critical and High risk vulnerabilities exist in certain versions of F5 products. As of 10 May 2022, the ACSC is aware of malicious cyber actors actively exploiting vulnerable versions of  F5 products  in Australia and globally. Given the widespread exploitation of this vulnerability, the ACSC encourages all organisations to assume their F5 products may have been compromised and initiate investigative procedures in addition to applying security patches. Background / What has happened? In May 2022, F5 released a security advisory relating to multiple Critical and High rated CVE’s, including CVE-2022-1388 with a CVSS score of 9.8, on multiple versions of their BIG-IP product line. CVE-2022-1388 allows malicious actors to bypass authentication on internet-exposed iControl interfaces, potentially executing arbitrary commands, creating or deleting files, or disabling services. The ACSC is aware of Proof of Concept code exploiting CVE-2022-1388, and attempts by malicious actors to exploit this vulnerability on Australian networks. Mitigation / How do I stay secure? Patches are available for all High and Critical rated CVE’s in F5’s Security advisory , and most have mitigation actions in the event immediate patching is not possible. The ACSC recommend that F5 users continue to monitor the F5 website for updates and future vulnerabilities. Assistance / Where can I go for help? The ACSC is monitoring the situation and is able to provide assistance and advice as required. Organisations that have been impacted or require assistance can contact the ACSC via cyber.gov.au/report , or 1300 CYBER1 . Content written for Individuals & families Small & medium businesses Organisations & critical infrastructure Government View all content First published: 09 May 2022 Last updated: 09 May 2022 Share on Was this information helpful? Was this information helpful? Yes No Thanks for your feedback! Thanks for your feedback! Optional Tell us why this information was helpful and we’ll work on making more pages like it Report a cyber security incident for critical infrastructure Get alerts on new threats Alert Service Become an ACSC partner Report a cybercrime or cyber security incident About the ACSC News & Alerts View all content Contact us Accessibility Copyright Disclaimer Privacy Australian Cyber Security Hotline 1300 CYBER1 (1300 292 371) Authorised by the Australian Government, Canberra Back to top