Use of Log4j vulnerabilities in ransomware activity | Cyber.gov.au Skip to main content Australian Government - Australian cyber security centre Menu Report Search Contact us Portal login Megamenu Individuals & Families Individuals and families Practical steps to keep yourself and your family secure About this section Have you been hacked? About this section Report a cybercrime Step-by-Step Guides Common cyber threats Easy steps to stay secure Personal security guides Protect yourself and your family Quick wins Recover and get help Subscribe to the ACSC alert service View all content Small & Medium Businesses Small & medium businesses How to protect your business and staff from common cyber threats About this section Have you been hacked? About this section Report a cybercrime Step-by-Step Guides Getting your business back up and running Protecting your business online Quick Wins Register for products and services Securing your business tools Small Business Cyber Security Guide Small Business Survey results First Nations business resources View all content Organisations & Critical Infrastructure Organisations & Critical Infrastructure Understand how to protect your organisation from cyber threats About this section About this section Report a cyber security incident Become an ACSC partner Critical infrastructure Large organisations Operational technology Alerts & advisories Programs Information Security Manual Strategies to Mitigate Cyber Security Incidents Essential Eight Publications Cloud Security Guidance View all content Government Government Strategies to protect your organisation from cyber threats About this section About this section Report a cyber security incident Become an ACSC partner Alerts & advisories Programs Information Security Manual Strategies to Mitigate Cyber Security Incidents Essential Eight Publications Guidance Cloud security guidance Cyber supply chain guidance Email hardening guidance Gateway and Cross Domain Solution guidance Governance guidance Miscellaneous guidance Operational technology guidance People-centred guidance Remote working guidance Secure mobility guidance System administration guidance System hardening guidance System monitoring guidance Web hardening guidance View all content Learn Learn Interactive tools and advice to boost your online safety Learn cyber security Sign up for alerts Explore topics Update your devices Set up and perform regular backups Turn on multi-factor authentication Set secure passphrases Recognise and report scams Watch out for threats View resources Glossary Resources library Quiz library Translated Information Contact us Report a cybercrime or cyber security incident Portal login Australian Cyber Security Hotline 1300 CYBER1 (1300 292 371) Use of Log4j vulnerabilities in ransomware activity You are here Home About the ACSC View all content View all alerts Use of Log4j vulnerabilities in ransomware activity The ACSC expects an increase in ransomware activity using Log4j as an exploit vector. Malicious actors may take advantage of trivial exploits to impact Australian organisations. Alert status HIGH Background / What has happened The ACSC is aware of reports that ransomware groups, previously responsible for impacting Australian organisations, have been leveraging the Log4j vulnerability. For example, A ransomware profile of Conti is available . If you were to suffer a ransomware attack, loss of any data could limit the ability for your business to conduct day-to-day activities, impact to your reputation and credibility, or risk losing customers. While you might think photos and other business documents are most important, it is worth considering other data that is critical to your business operations. If left unfixed, ransomware can cause severe damage. It can hurt your reputation, and cost you money. Mitigation / How do I stay secure? The ACSC has published specific guidance on mitigating the Log4j vulnerability via an advisory and information on the risks, impacts and preventative actions associated with ransomware via an additional advisory . The ACSC continues to monitor the situation and work with our partners. On 23 December 2021 the ACSC released a joint advisory to provide further mitigation guidance on addressing vulnerabilities in Log4j software library: CVE-2021-44228 (known as “Log4Shell”), CVE-2021-45046 , and CVE-2021-45105 . Assistance / Where can I go for help? The ACSC is monitoring the situation and is able to provide assistance and advice as required. Organisations that have been impacted or require assistance can contact the ACSC via 1300 CYBER1 . Content written for Individuals & families Small & medium businesses Organisations & critical infrastructure Government View all content First published: 23 Dec 2021 Last updated: 23 Dec 2021 Share on Was this information helpful? Was this information helpful? Yes No Thanks for your feedback! Thanks for your feedback! Optional Tell us why this information was helpful and we’ll work on making more pages like it Report a cyber security incident for critical infrastructure Get alerts on new threats Alert Service Become an ACSC partner Report a cybercrime or cyber security incident About the ACSC News & Alerts View all content Contact us Accessibility Copyright Disclaimer Privacy Australian Cyber Security Hotline 1300 CYBER1 (1300 292 371) Authorised by the Australian Government, Canberra Back to top