Web shells being used as attack vectors on networks | Cyber.gov.au Skip to main content Australian Government - Australian cyber security centre Menu Report Search Contact us Portal login Megamenu Individuals & Families Individuals and families Practical steps to keep yourself and your family secure About this section Have you been hacked? About this section Report a cybercrime Step-by-Step Guides Common cyber threats Easy steps to stay secure Personal security guides Protect yourself and your family Quick wins Recover and get help Subscribe to the ACSC alert service View all content Small & Medium Businesses Small & medium businesses How to protect your business and staff from common cyber threats About this section Have you been hacked? About this section Report a cybercrime Step-by-Step Guides Getting your business back up and running Protecting your business online Quick Wins Register for products and services Securing your business tools Small Business Cyber Security Guide Small Business Survey results First Nations business resources View all content Organisations & Critical Infrastructure Organisations & Critical Infrastructure Understand how to protect your organisation from cyber threats About this section About this section Report a cyber security incident Become an ACSC partner Critical infrastructure Large organisations Operational technology Alerts & advisories Programs Information Security Manual Strategies to Mitigate Cyber Security Incidents Essential Eight Publications Cloud Security Guidance View all content Government Government Strategies to protect your organisation from cyber threats About this section About this section Report a cyber security incident Become an ACSC partner Alerts & advisories Programs Information Security Manual Strategies to Mitigate Cyber Security Incidents Essential Eight Publications Guidance Cloud security guidance Cyber supply chain guidance Email hardening guidance Gateway and Cross Domain Solution guidance Governance guidance Miscellaneous guidance Operational technology guidance People-centred guidance Remote working guidance Secure mobility guidance System administration guidance System hardening guidance System monitoring guidance Web hardening guidance View all content Learn Learn Interactive tools and advice to boost your online safety Learn cyber security Sign up for alerts Explore topics Update your devices Set up and perform regular backups Turn on multi-factor authentication Set secure passphrases Recognise and report scams Watch out for threats View resources Glossary Resources library Quiz library Translated Information Contact us Report a cybercrime or cyber security incident Portal login Australian Cyber Security Hotline 1300 CYBER1 (1300 292 371) Web shells being used as attack vectors on networks You are here Home About the ACSC View all content View all alerts Web shells being used as attack vectors on networks This alert highlights the frequent use of web shells as an exploitation vector. Web shells can be used to leverage unauthorised access and can lead to wider network compromise. Alert status HIGH Web shells can be used to leverage unauthorised access and can lead to wider network compromise. The ACSC has responded to multiple instances where the use o f web shells by Advanced Persistent Threat (APT) and crimi nal groups has led to signific ant cyber incidents in Australia and globally. Web Shell Description A web shell is a script that can be uploaded to a web server to enable remote administration of the machine. Infected web servers can either be internet-facing or internal to the network, where the web shell is used to pivot further to internal hosts. A web shell can be written in any language that the target w eb server supports. The most commonly observed web shells are written in languages that are widely supported, such as PHP and ASP. Perl, Ruby, Python and Unix shell scripts are also use d. Using network reconnaissance tools, an adversary can identif y vulnerabilities that can be exploited and result in the installation of a web shell. For ex ample, these vulnerabilities can exist in content management systems (CMS) or web server software. Once successfully uploaded, an adversary can use the web she ll to leverage other exploitation techniques to escalate privileges and to issue commands remotel y. These commands are directly linked to the privilege and functionality available to the web server and may include the ability to add, delete and execute files as well as the ability to run shell commands, further executables, or scripts. How/Why are they used by malicious adversaries? Web shells are frequently used in compromises due to the com bination of remote access and functionality. Even simple web shells can have a considerable i mpact and often maintain minimal presence. Web shells are utilised for the following purposes: Harvesting and exfiltration of sensitive data and credential s; To upload additional malware for the potential of creating, for example, a watering hole for infection and scanning of further victims; To use as a relay point to issue commands to hosts inside the network without direct internet access; To use as command and control infrastructure, potentially i n the form of a bot in a botnet or in support of compromis es to additional external netw orks. This could occur if the adversary intends to maintain long-term persistence. While a web shell itself would not normally be used for den ial of service (DoS) attacks, it can act as a platform for uploading further tools, including DoS capabi lity. Delivery Tactics Web shells can be deliver ed through a number of web applica tion exploits or configuration weaknesses including: Cross-Site Scripting; SQL Injection; Vulnerabilities in applications/s ervices (e.g. Wordpress or ot her CMS applications); File processing vulnerabilities (e.g. upload filtering or assi gned permissions); Remote File Include (RFI) and Local File Include (LFI) vulnera bilities; Exposed Admin Interfaces (possible areas to find vulnerabiliti es mentioned above). The above tactics can be and are combined regularly. For ex ample, an exposed admin interface also requires a file upload option, or another exploit method m entioned above, to deliver successfully. 15 Nov 2015 Web Shells – Threat Awareness and Guidance Content written for Individuals & families Small & medium businesses Organisations & critical infrastructure Government View all content First published: 15 Nov 2015 Last updated: 15 Nov 2015 Share on Was this information helpful? Was this information helpful? Yes No Thanks for your feedback! Thanks for your feedback! Optional Tell us why this information was helpful and we’ll work on making more pages like it Report a cyber security incident for critical infrastructure Get alerts on new threats Alert Service Become an ACSC partner Report a cybercrime or cyber security incident About the ACSC News & Alerts View all content Contact us Accessibility Copyright Disclaimer Privacy Australian Cyber Security Hotline 1300 CYBER1 (1300 292 371) Authorised by the Australian Government, Canberra Back to top