Optus Data Breach | Cyber.gov.au Skip to main content Australian Government - Australian cyber security centre Menu Report Search Contact us Portal login Megamenu Individuals & Families Individuals and families Practical steps to keep yourself and your family secure About this section Have you been hacked? About this section Report a cybercrime Step-by-Step Guides Common cyber threats Easy steps to stay secure Personal security guides Protect yourself and your family Quick wins Recover and get help Subscribe to the ACSC alert service View all content Small & Medium Businesses Small & medium businesses How to protect your business and staff from common cyber threats About this section Have you been hacked? About this section Report a cybercrime Step-by-Step Guides Getting your business back up and running Protecting your business online Quick Wins Register for products and services Securing your business tools Small Business Cyber Security Guide Small Business Survey results First Nations business resources View all content Organisations & Critical Infrastructure Organisations & Critical Infrastructure Understand how to protect your organisation from cyber threats About this section About this section Report a cyber security incident Become an ACSC partner Critical infrastructure Large organisations Operational technology Alerts & advisories Programs Information Security Manual Strategies to Mitigate Cyber Security Incidents Essential Eight Publications Cloud Security Guidance View all content Government Government Strategies to protect your organisation from cyber threats About this section About this section Report a cyber security incident Become an ACSC partner Alerts & advisories Programs Information Security Manual Strategies to Mitigate Cyber Security Incidents Essential Eight Publications Guidance Cloud security guidance Cyber supply chain guidance Email hardening guidance Gateway and Cross Domain Solution guidance Governance guidance Miscellaneous guidance Operational technology guidance People-centred guidance Remote working guidance Secure mobility guidance System administration guidance System hardening guidance System monitoring guidance Web hardening guidance View all content Learn Learn Interactive tools and advice to boost your online safety Learn cyber security Sign up for alerts Explore topics Update your devices Set up and perform regular backups Turn on multi-factor authentication Set secure passphrases Recognise and report scams Watch out for threats View resources Glossary Resources library Quiz library Translated Information Contact us Report a cybercrime or cyber security incident Portal login Australian Cyber Security Hotline 1300 CYBER1 (1300 292 371) Optus Data Breach You are here Home About the ACSC View all content View all alerts Optus Data Breach To help protect against fraud, Optus has notified customers to look to reputable sources such as Moneysmart and the Office of the Australian Information Commissioner. Alert status MEDIUM If you think you may be affected by the recent Optus data breach contact Optus Customer service on 133 937 . You should also: Secure and monitor your devices and accounts for unusual activity, and ensure they have the latest security updates. Enable multi‑factor authentication for all accounts. Be alert for scams referencing the Optus data breach. Learn how to protect yourself from scams by visiting www.scamwatch.gov.au . If you are concerned that your identity has been compromised or you have been a victim of a scam, contact your bank immediately and call IDCARE on 1800 595 160 . If your identity has been stolen, you can apply for a Commonwealth Victims' Certificate . If you believe you are victim of a cybercrime, go to ReportCyber . Other websites that can help you protect yourself and stay informed: Identity theft | Moneysmart Identity fraud | OAIC If you wish to make a privacy complaint, please contact Optus . If you are unable to resolve your complaint with Optus, you may wish to lodge a complaint with the Telecommunications Industry Ombudsman and the Office of the Australian Information Commissioner . What is the Government doing to protect your identity? The Government is looking at all possible solutions to protect and reissue victims’ identity documents. The Government has amended the Telecommunications Regulations 2021 to better protect Australians following the Optus data breach. They will allow Optus to share limited information with financial institutions and Government agencies to detect and mitigate the risks of malicious activity, including ID theft and scams. These changes will reduce the impact of this data breach on Optus customers and enable financial institutions and Government agencies to implement enhanced safeguards and monitoring. The Department of Home Affairs has established a Commonwealth Credential Protection Register to help stop compromised identities from being used fraudulently. The Register will prevent compromised identity credentials from being verified through the Document Verification Service. The Document Verification Service is used by government agencies and businesses, such as banks, to verify an individual’s identity online. This will prevent credentials that are included on the Register from being used fraudulently. However this means rightful owners will not be able to use them online. New credentials issued following the data breach will work as normal. In the interim, impacted individuals should consider using alternative credentials or speak to service providers that ask for identification for other options, such as visiting the service in person to present the credential. As Optus provides data, the issuing agencies will assess it and determine whether to add credentials to the Register. As at 14 October 2022, the Register includes around 100,000 Australian Passports. These passports can still be used for international travel. The Australian Federal Police (AFP) has launched Operation HURRICANE to investigate the criminal aspects of the breach. The AFP has also launched Operation GUARDIAN, under the APF‑led JPC3, a joint partnership with law enforcement, the private sector and industry to combat cybercrime. Operation GUARDIAN is focused on shielding affected customers, where they can be identified, and working with industry to enhance protections for members of the public. The AFP is also monitoring online forums, including the internet and dark web, for criminals trying to exploit the breached data. The AFP will not hesitate to take action against those who are breaking the law. The Australian Cyber Security Centre is supporting Optus with a cyber security incident response and assisting other Australian telecommunications providers to enhance their cyber security. The Department of Home Affairs is working with Commonwealth, state and territory agencies to minimise the potential for exposed documents to be used fraudulently. If your Medicare card or Centrelink concession card details have been exposed, Optus will contact you directly. Services Australia will allow you to replace your Medicare card for free. Services Australia has also put in place additional security measures to protect your information. If your Medicare or Centrelink account has been compromised, you can call Services Australia’s Scams and Identity Theft Help Desk on 1800 941 126 . They can help secure your accounts if they have been compromised. Passports are still safe to use for international travel. However, the Government understands impacted Optus customers may be concerned about identity theft relating to their passports. Optus has agreed to reimburse the costs associated with replacing a passport due to the breach. Customers will need to pay for their replacement passport upfront and then seek a reimbursement from Optus. For more information go to Cyberattack Support (optus.com.au) or contact Optus customer service directly on 133 937 . The Government will continue to update this factsheet as Optus provides more advice. Content written for Individuals & families Small & medium businesses Organisations & critical infrastructure Government View all content First published: 23 Sep 2022 Last updated: 30 Sep 2022 Share on Was this information helpful? Was this information helpful? Yes No Thanks for your feedback! Thanks for your feedback! Optional Tell us why this information was helpful and we’ll work on making more pages like it Report a cyber security incident for critical infrastructure Get alerts on new threats Alert Service Become an ACSC partner Report a cybercrime or cyber security incident About the ACSC News & Alerts View all content Contact us Accessibility Copyright Disclaimer Privacy Australian Cyber Security Hotline 1300 CYBER1 (1300 292 371) Authorised by the Australian Government, Canberra Back to top