Critical remote code execution vulnerability found in the Log4j library | Cyber.gov.au Skip to main content Australian Government - Australian cyber security centre Menu Report Search Contact us Portal login Megamenu Individuals & Families Individuals and families Practical steps to keep yourself and your family secure About this section Have you been hacked? About this section Report a cybercrime Step-by-Step Guides Common cyber threats Easy steps to stay secure Personal security guides Protect yourself and your family Quick wins Recover and get help Subscribe to the ACSC alert service View all content Small & Medium Businesses Small & medium businesses How to protect your business and staff from common cyber threats About this section Have you been hacked? About this section Report a cybercrime Step-by-Step Guides Getting your business back up and running Protecting your business online Quick Wins Register for products and services Securing your business tools Small Business Cyber Security Guide Small Business Survey results First Nations business resources View all content Organisations & Critical Infrastructure Organisations & Critical Infrastructure Understand how to protect your organisation from cyber threats About this section About this section Report a cyber security incident Become an ACSC partner Critical infrastructure Large organisations Operational technology Alerts & advisories Programs Information Security Manual Strategies to Mitigate Cyber Security Incidents Essential Eight Publications Cloud Security Guidance View all content Government Government Strategies to protect your organisation from cyber threats About this section About this section Report a cyber security incident Become an ACSC partner Alerts & advisories Programs Information Security Manual Strategies to Mitigate Cyber Security Incidents Essential Eight Publications Guidance Cloud security guidance Cyber supply chain guidance Email hardening guidance Gateway and Cross Domain Solution guidance Governance guidance Miscellaneous guidance Operational technology guidance People-centred guidance Remote working guidance Secure mobility guidance System administration guidance System hardening guidance System monitoring guidance Web hardening guidance View all content Learn Learn Interactive tools and advice to boost your online safety Learn cyber security Sign up for alerts Explore topics Update your devices Set up and perform regular backups Turn on multi-factor authentication Set secure passphrases Recognise and report scams Watch out for threats View resources Glossary Resources library Quiz library Translated Information Contact us Report a cybercrime or cyber security incident Portal login Australian Cyber Security Hotline 1300 CYBER1 (1300 292 371) Critical remote code execution vulnerability found in the Log4j library You are here Home About the ACSC View all content View all alerts Critical remote code execution vulnerability found in the Log4j library A vulnerability (CVE-2021-44228) exists in certain versions of the Log4j library. A malicious cyber actor could exploit this vulnerability to execute arbitrary code. Australian organisations should apply latest patches immediately where Log4j is known to be used. Alert status CRITICAL Update This is an update to Alert the ACSC issued on 10 December 2021. A critical vulnerability ( CVE-2021-44228 ) exists in certain versions of the Log4j library. A malicious cyber actor could exploit this vulnerability to execute arbitrary code and compromise systems and networks . Australian organisations should apply latest patches immediately where Log4j is known to be used. If you are a developer of any affected software, the ACSC advises early communication with your customers to enable them to apply mitigations and install updates where they are available. If you are an individual it is recommended that you update your device software as soon as possible. As of 14 December 2021, the ACSC is aware of targeting and compromise of organisations using this vulnerability globally and in Australia. M alicious cyber actors have used this vulnerability to target and compromise systems globally and in Australia. As of 15 December 2021, t he ACSC has published an advisory regarding mitigation and detection recommendations. This advisory is frequently updated with latest in-depth guidance for organisation based on ACSC knowledge of this evolving situation . Background /What has happened? A critical vulnerability ( CVE-2021-44228 ), leading to remote code extension, has been identified in the Log4j library. The ACSC is aware of scanning attempts to locate vulnerable servers. The Common Vulnerability Scoring System (CVSS) rates this vulnerability as a critical 10/10 severity. As of 14 December 2021, the ACSC is aware of targeting and compromise of organisations using this vulnerability globally and in Australia. What is Log4j? Log4j is a widely used open-source logging library for Java applications. It is a key building block which is reused to provide logging functionality to help system developers troubleshoot in a large number of applications globally. Why is it important? Log4j is used by millions of websites and apps. The software’s vulnerability potentially allows cybercriminals to take control of systems by typing a simple line of code, making them vulnerable to exploitation. Many forms of enterprise and open-source software, including cloud platforms, popular apps and websites and email services, use Log4j. Thousands of devices around the world connected to the internet could be at risk. A detailed outline of the vulnerability has been published via a security blog post and additional technical specifications have been published by Red Hat . What to do? Australian organisations should identify vulnerable applications and services running in their environment using techniques described or via lists of vulnerable products . The ACSC further recommends that organisations check the logs of these systems for evidence of exploitation attempts using these techniques . System administrators should check potentially vulnerable servers for outbound traffic to hosts outside the local network which may indicate communication with command and control nodes or traffic to internal hosts indicating attempts of lateral movement. If present, any activity detected using this method warrants further investigation. If you are an individual concerned about the Log4j vulnerability it is recommended that you update your device software as soon as possible. Mitigation / How do I stay secure? The ACSC strongly recommends the implementation of the ASD Essential Eight mitigations to mitigate threats to internet facing systems. Specifically for this vulnerability, maintaining a regular patch process and validating the application of patches reduces the risk of exploitation and is an essential part of a mature cyber program. A ustralian organisations using systems which feature Log4j as a component, the ACSC recommends seeking vendor guidance on patching the system. If you are a developer of any affected software, the ACSC advises early communication with your customers to enable them to apply mitigations and install updates where they are available. Australian organisations who utilise Log4j versions prior to 2.15.0 should update to the latest available version . However, where a patch cannot be applied immediately Australian organisations should make use of the mitigation suggestions available . Australian organisations are additionally recommended to pursue the following actions to limit the chance of exploitation or extent of compromise: Implement network segmentation and segregation of affected hosts; Specifically for this vulnerability, configure network access rules to prevent vulnerable hosts from initiating requests to all JNDI related naming services; If practical, disable outbound connections from the vulnerable hosts to the internet; Isolate hosts running vulnerable applications to prevent lateral movement; Configure a Web Application Firewall (WAF) to drop identified malicious user controlled log2j entries; Develop a patch prioritisation strategy that focuses on internet facing systems. Assistance / Where can I go for help? The ACSC is monitoring the situation and is able to provide assistance and advice as required. Organisations that have been impacted or require assistance can contact the ACSC via 1300 CYBER1 . 15 Dec 2021 2021-007: Log4j vulnerability – advice and mitigations 23 Dec 2021 Mitigating Log4Shell and Other Log4j-Related Vulnerabilities Content written for Individuals & families Small & medium businesses Organisations & critical infrastructure Government View all content First published: 10 Dec 2021 Last updated: 21 Dec 2021 Share on Was this information helpful? Was this information helpful? Yes No Thanks for your feedback! Thanks for your feedback! Optional Tell us why this information was helpful and we’ll work on making more pages like it Report a cyber security incident for critical infrastructure Get alerts on new threats Alert Service Become an ACSC partner Report a cybercrime or cyber security incident About the ACSC News & Alerts View all content Contact us Accessibility Copyright Disclaimer Privacy Australian Cyber Security Hotline 1300 CYBER1 (1300 292 371) Authorised by the Australian Government, Canberra Back to top