Post-Quantum Cryptography | Cyber.gov.au Skip to main content Australian Government - Australian cyber security centre Menu Report Search Contact us Portal login Megamenu Individuals & Families Individuals and families Practical steps to keep yourself and your family secure About this section Have you been hacked? About this section Report a cybercrime Step-by-Step Guides Common cyber threats Easy steps to stay secure Personal security guides Protect yourself and your family Quick wins Recover and get help Subscribe to the ACSC alert service View all content Small & Medium Businesses Small & medium businesses How to protect your business and staff from common cyber threats About this section Have you been hacked? About this section Report a cybercrime Step-by-Step Guides Getting your business back up and running Protecting your business online Quick Wins Register for products and services Securing your business tools Small Business Cyber Security Guide Small Business Survey results First Nations business resources View all content Organisations & Critical Infrastructure Organisations & Critical Infrastructure Understand how to protect your organisation from cyber threats About this section About this section Report a cyber security incident Become an ACSC partner Critical infrastructure Large organisations Operational technology Alerts & advisories Programs Information Security Manual Strategies to Mitigate Cyber Security Incidents Essential Eight Publications Cloud Security Guidance View all content Government Government Strategies to protect your organisation from cyber threats About this section About this section Report a cyber security incident Become an ACSC partner Alerts & advisories Programs Information Security Manual Strategies to Mitigate Cyber Security Incidents Essential Eight Publications Guidance Cloud security guidance Cyber supply chain guidance Email hardening guidance Gateway and Cross Domain Solution guidance Governance guidance Miscellaneous guidance Operational technology guidance People-centred guidance Remote working guidance Secure mobility guidance System administration guidance System hardening guidance System monitoring guidance Web hardening guidance View all content Learn Learn Interactive tools and advice to boost your online safety Learn cyber security Sign up for alerts Explore topics Update your devices Set up and perform regular backups Turn on multi-factor authentication Set secure passphrases Recognise and report scams Watch out for threats View resources Glossary Resources library Quiz library Translated Information Contact us Report a cybercrime or cyber security incident Portal login Australian Cyber Security Hotline 1300 CYBER1 (1300 292 371) Post-Quantum Cryptography You are here Home About the ACSC View all content View all alerts Post-Quantum Cryptography A cryptographically relevant quantum computer (CRQC) will render most contemporary public key cryptography (PKC) insecure, thus making ubiquitous secure communications based on current PKC technology infeasible. The Australian Signals Directorate (ASD) is aware of the risks presented by the creation of a CRQC and encourages organisations to consider anticipating future requirements and dependencies of vulnerable systems during the transition to PQC standards. Alert status LOW T he US National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) has announced the selection of PQC algorithms that address the risks arising from the creation of a CRQC and this will inform the ASD PQC algorithm selection process. Background / What has happened? Post-quantum cryptography is a field of cryptography dedicated to the creation and analysis of cryptographic algorithms that derive their security from mathematical problems considered difficult for both classical and quantum computers. PQC offers a low-cost, practical path to maintain the properties of secure communications systems in the presence of a CRQC. ASD has not currently selected preferred PQC algorithms. Selection will be informed by the NIST process to develop and standardise PQC algorithms. Candidate algorithms are evaluated and scrutinised in successive rounds to ensure the new standards will meet the requirements to protect sensitive data. ASD will evaluate each PQC algorithm based on its merits. Organisations can choose to pilot and prototype with candidate algorithms in test environments, ahead of use in production systems. Mitigation / How do I stay secure? ASD assesses that currently approved cryptography provides the most effective communications security option at this time. ASD will provide updated advice and doctrine, including a roadmap outlining a transition to PQC, in due course. Those organisations with particularly sensitive cryptographic systems are encouraged to pilot PQC algorithms in separate test environments and discuss their anticipated PQC needs with vendors or those involved in post-quantum cryptographic research. More broadly – including outside of cryptographic applications – Australian industry is encouraged to continue research and development of quantum technologies. This should include practical vulnerability research to better understand the risks associated with employing quantum technologies. Assistance / Where can I go for help? There are further details on the NIST PQC standardisation process, including a detailed status report . The ACSC is monitoring the situation and is able to provide assistance and advice as required. Organisations that have been impacted or require assistance can contact the ACSC via cyber.gov.au/report , or 1300 CYBER1 ( 1300 292 371 ). Content written for Individuals & families Small & medium businesses Organisations & critical infrastructure Government View all content First published: 06 Jul 2022 Last updated: 06 Jul 2022 Share on Was this information helpful? Was this information helpful? Yes No Thanks for your feedback! Thanks for your feedback! Optional Tell us why this information was helpful and we’ll work on making more pages like it Report a cyber security incident for critical infrastructure Get alerts on new threats Alert Service Become an ACSC partner Report a cybercrime or cyber security incident About the ACSC News & Alerts View all content Contact us Accessibility Copyright Disclaimer Privacy Australian Cyber Security Hotline 1300 CYBER1 (1300 292 371) Authorised by the Australian Government, Canberra Back to top