Multiple vulnerabilities present in the Spring Framework for Java | Cyber.gov.au Skip to main content Australian Government - Australian cyber security centre Menu Report Search Contact us Portal login Megamenu Individuals & Families Individuals and families Practical steps to keep yourself and your family secure About this section Have you been hacked? About this section Report a cybercrime Step-by-Step Guides Common cyber threats Easy steps to stay secure Personal security guides Protect yourself and your family Quick wins Recover and get help Subscribe to the ACSC alert service View all content Small & Medium Businesses Small & medium businesses How to protect your business and staff from common cyber threats About this section Have you been hacked? About this section Report a cybercrime Step-by-Step Guides Getting your business back up and running Protecting your business online Quick Wins Register for products and services Securing your business tools Small Business Cyber Security Guide Small Business Survey results First Nations business resources View all content Organisations & Critical Infrastructure Organisations & Critical Infrastructure Understand how to protect your organisation from cyber threats About this section About this section Report a cyber security incident Become an ACSC partner Critical infrastructure Large organisations Operational technology Alerts & advisories Programs Information Security Manual Strategies to Mitigate Cyber Security Incidents Essential Eight Publications Cloud Security Guidance View all content Government Government Strategies to protect your organisation from cyber threats About this section About this section Report a cyber security incident Become an ACSC partner Alerts & advisories Programs Information Security Manual Strategies to Mitigate Cyber Security Incidents Essential Eight Publications Guidance Cloud security guidance Cyber supply chain guidance Email hardening guidance Gateway and Cross Domain Solution guidance Governance guidance Miscellaneous guidance Operational technology guidance People-centred guidance Remote working guidance Secure mobility guidance System administration guidance System hardening guidance System monitoring guidance Web hardening guidance View all content Learn Learn Interactive tools and advice to boost your online safety Learn cyber security Sign up for alerts Explore topics Update your devices Set up and perform regular backups Turn on multi-factor authentication Set secure passphrases Recognise and report scams Watch out for threats View resources Glossary Resources library Quiz library Translated Information Contact us Report a cybercrime or cyber security incident Portal login Australian Cyber Security Hotline 1300 CYBER1 (1300 292 371) Multiple vulnerabilities present in the Spring Framework for Java You are here Home About the ACSC View all content View all alerts Multiple vulnerabilities present in the Spring Framework for Java The ACSC is aware of media reporting relating to multiple potential vulnerabilities, including the so-called SpringShell vulnerability, in the Java Spring framework and its execution environments. These vulnerabilities pose a threat to organisations running applications on the web which contain components using the Java Spring framework. Alert status HIGH Background / What has happened? In March 2022, reports emerged relating to multiple vulnerabilities in relation to the Spring Framework and its operating environments. A malicious cyber actor may be able to exploit these vulnerabilities to execute arbitrary code, including malware or ransomware. VMWare has released a security advisory which addresses CVE-2022-22963 in Spring Cloud Function and the CVE-2022-22965 in Spring WebFlux Application . The Spring4Shell vulnerability has been likened to the Apache Log4J vulnerabilities discovered in late 2021. Similarly to Apache Log4j, the Spring Framework is a ubiquitous building block used in potentially hundreds of thousands of applications across the internet, and the vulnerability allows malicious cyber actors to execute arbitrary code on target machines. Australian organisations should be aware of these risks and apply necessary patches. If you are a developer of any affected software, the ACSC advises early communication with your customers to enable them to apply mitigations and install updates where they are available. Mitigation / How do I stay secure? To address CVE-2022-22963 Australian organisations should consult and action the recommendations contained within the vendor’s security advisories, CVE-2022-22963 , and CVE-2022-22965 . Australian organisations should review systems for the presence of Spring Core and patch where available, prioritising external facing systems. If Spring Core is present consider reviewing web application logs for indications of unusual requests which could indicate exploitation attempts. Australian organisations should also consider reviewing for the recent creation of .jsp files. The ACSC recommends that users of the Spring Framework should monitor for the release of updated software versions and security advisories. ACSC will continue to monitor this issue and update as necessary. Assistance / Where can I go for help? The ACSC is monitoring the situation and is able to provide assistance and advice as required. Organisations that have been impacted or require assistance can contact the ACSC via cyber.gov.au/report , or 1300 CYBER1. Content written for Individuals & families Small & medium businesses Organisations & critical infrastructure Government View all content First published: 31 Mar 2022 Last updated: 04 Apr 2022 Share on Was this information helpful? Was this information helpful? Yes No Thanks for your feedback! Thanks for your feedback! Optional Tell us why this information was helpful and we’ll work on making more pages like it Report a cyber security incident for critical infrastructure Get alerts on new threats Alert Service Become an ACSC partner Report a cybercrime or cyber security incident About the ACSC News & Alerts View all content Contact us Accessibility Copyright Disclaimer Privacy Australian Cyber Security Hotline 1300 CYBER1 (1300 292 371) Authorised by the Australian Government, Canberra Back to top