Vulnerability Affecting BlackBerry QNX RTOS | Cyber.gov.au Skip to main content Australian Government - Australian cyber security centre Menu Report Search Contact us Portal login Megamenu Individuals & Families Individuals and families Practical steps to keep yourself and your family secure About this section Have you been hacked? About this section Report a cybercrime Step-by-Step Guides Common cyber threats Easy steps to stay secure Personal security guides Protect yourself and your family Quick wins Recover and get help Subscribe to the ACSC alert service View all content Small & Medium Businesses Small & medium businesses How to protect your business and staff from common cyber threats About this section Have you been hacked? About this section Report a cybercrime Step-by-Step Guides Getting your business back up and running Protecting your business online Quick Wins Register for products and services Securing your business tools Small Business Cyber Security Guide Small Business Survey results First Nations business resources View all content Organisations & Critical Infrastructure Organisations & Critical Infrastructure Understand how to protect your organisation from cyber threats About this section About this section Report a cyber security incident Become an ACSC partner Critical infrastructure Large organisations Operational technology Alerts & advisories Programs Information Security Manual Strategies to Mitigate Cyber Security Incidents Essential Eight Publications Cloud Security Guidance View all content Government Government Strategies to protect your organisation from cyber threats About this section About this section Report a cyber security incident Become an ACSC partner Alerts & advisories Programs Information Security Manual Strategies to Mitigate Cyber Security Incidents Essential Eight Publications Guidance Cloud security guidance Cyber supply chain guidance Email hardening guidance Gateway and Cross Domain Solution guidance Governance guidance Miscellaneous guidance Operational technology guidance People-centred guidance Remote working guidance Secure mobility guidance System administration guidance System hardening guidance System monitoring guidance Web hardening guidance View all content Learn Learn Interactive tools and advice to boost your online safety Learn cyber security Sign up for alerts Explore topics Update your devices Set up and perform regular backups Turn on multi-factor authentication Set secure passphrases Recognise and report scams Watch out for threats View resources Glossary Resources library Quiz library Translated Information Contact us Report a cybercrime or cyber security incident Portal login Australian Cyber Security Hotline 1300 CYBER1 (1300 292 371) Vulnerability Affecting BlackBerry QNX RTOS You are here Home About the ACSC View all content View all alerts Vulnerability Affecting BlackBerry QNX RTOS BlackBerry has disclosed that its QNX Real Time Operating System is affected by a BadAlloc vulnerability - CVE-2021-22156. QNX is the world’s most prevalent real time operating system. Alert status HIGH Background /What has happened? The ACSC is tracking a vulnerability in BlackBerry QNX RTOS on Australian networks. An integer overflow vulnerability exists in BlackBerry’s QNX products (including standard, medical and safety-certified versions).  This vulnerability could allow remote code execution or denial-of-service attacks. This is a high-risk vulnerability, affecting QNX SDP 6.5 SP1 and below (shipped in products manufactured between 1996 to 2012) and QNX for safety manufactured until 2018. Whether exploitation is possible depends on the presence of an external connection, and whether compensating controls otherwise protect the device. Impact is implementation specific. The ACSC recommends users take defensive measures such as those detailed in the Protecting Industrial Control Systems publication to minimize the risk of exploitation. BlackBerry has released a list of affected products . It is difficult to know what downstream products use QNX as original equipment manufacturers (OEM) build and deploy QNX downstream. Since OEMs can modify the code, patches may be specific to OEM products, rather than simply a generic QNX patch. View further information on this vulnerability. Mitigation / How do I stay secure? Australian organisations should review their networks for use of vulnerable instances of  BlackBerry QNX RTOS and implement the following mitigation advice. Apply available vendor updates. Manufacturers of products that incorporate vulnerable versions should contact BlackBerry or their direct reseller to obtain the patch code. Manufacturers of products who develop unique versions of RTOS software should contact BlackBerry to obtain the patch code but may need to develop and test their own software patches. End users should contact the manufacturer of their product to obtain a patch and apply the patch as soon as possible. Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure that they are not accessible from the Internet . Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls, and isolate them from the business network. When remote access is required, apply the ACSC Industrial Control Systems Remote Access Protocol publication. Further advice for supply chain risk management can be found in the Cyber Supply Chain Risk Management Practitioner Guide publication. Assistance/ where can I go for help? The ACSC is monitoring the situation and is able to provide assistance and advice as required. Organisations that have been impacted or require assistance can contact the ACSC via 1300 CYBER1. 17 Aug 2021 Vulnerability Affecting BlackBerry QNX RTOS Content written for Individuals & families Small & medium businesses Organisations & critical infrastructure Government View all content First published: 18 Aug 2021 Last updated: 18 Aug 2021 Share on Was this information helpful? Was this information helpful? Yes No Thanks for your feedback! Thanks for your feedback! Optional Tell us why this information was helpful and we’ll work on making more pages like it Report a cyber security incident for critical infrastructure Get alerts on new threats Alert Service Become an ACSC partner Report a cybercrime or cyber security incident About the ACSC News & Alerts View all content Contact us Accessibility Copyright Disclaimer Privacy Australian Cyber Security Hotline 1300 CYBER1 (1300 292 371) Authorised by the Australian Government, Canberra Back to top