Microsoft Windows security vulnerability – ‘BlueKeep’ (CVE-2019-0708) | Cyber.gov.au Skip to main content Australian Government - Australian cyber security centre Menu Report Search Contact us Portal login Megamenu Individuals & Families Individuals and families Practical steps to keep yourself and your family secure About this section Have you been hacked? About this section Report a cybercrime Step-by-Step Guides Common cyber threats Easy steps to stay secure Personal security guides Protect yourself and your family Quick wins Recover and get help Subscribe to the ACSC alert service View all content Small & Medium Businesses Small & medium businesses How to protect your business and staff from common cyber threats About this section Have you been hacked? About this section Report a cybercrime Step-by-Step Guides Getting your business back up and running Protecting your business online Quick Wins Register for products and services Securing your business tools Small Business Cyber Security Guide Small Business Survey results First Nations business resources View all content Organisations & Critical Infrastructure Organisations & Critical Infrastructure Understand how to protect your organisation from cyber threats About this section About this section Report a cyber security incident Become an ACSC partner Critical infrastructure Large organisations Operational technology Alerts & advisories Programs Information Security Manual Strategies to Mitigate Cyber Security Incidents Essential Eight Publications Cloud Security Guidance View all content Government Government Strategies to protect your organisation from cyber threats About this section About this section Report a cyber security incident Become an ACSC partner Alerts & advisories Programs Information Security Manual Strategies to Mitigate Cyber Security Incidents Essential Eight Publications Guidance Cloud security guidance Cyber supply chain guidance Email hardening guidance Gateway and Cross Domain Solution guidance Governance guidance Miscellaneous guidance Operational technology guidance People-centred guidance Remote working guidance Secure mobility guidance System administration guidance System hardening guidance System monitoring guidance Web hardening guidance View all content Learn Learn Interactive tools and advice to boost your online safety Learn cyber security Sign up for alerts Explore topics Update your devices Set up and perform regular backups Turn on multi-factor authentication Set secure passphrases Recognise and report scams Watch out for threats View resources Glossary Resources library Quiz library Translated Information Contact us Report a cybercrime or cyber security incident Portal login Australian Cyber Security Hotline 1300 CYBER1 (1300 292 371) Microsoft Windows security vulnerability – ‘BlueKeep’ (CVE-2019-0708) You are here Home About the ACSC View all content View all alerts Microsoft Windows security vulnerability – ‘BlueKeep’ (CVE-2019-0708) CVE-2019-0708, also known as ‘BlueKeep’ leaves users open to attack from malicious actors who can exploit a vulnerability via Remote Desktop Services (RDS) on legacy versions of the Windows operating system. Alert status HIGH Vulnerability The Australian Signals Directorate’s Australian Cyber Security Centre (ACSC) advises Windows users to ensure their systems are patched and up-to-date after Microsoft’s recent disclosure of new remote desktop vulnerability. CVE-2019-0708, also known as ‘BlueKeep’, leaves users open to attack from malicious actors who can exploit a vulnerability via Remote Desktop Services (RDS) on legacy versions of the Windows operating system. Malicious actors can utilise this vulnerability on unprotected systems to conduct denial of services attacks , access systems or view, change and delete information. The vulnerability is present in Windows 7, Windows XP, Server 2003 and 2008. Microsoft issued a patch for these systems but millions of machines are potentially still vulnerable. Complacency is a big risk factor, as malicious actors do not always act immediately. Over the weekend of 12 May 2017, the cyberattack known as WannaCry, using the EternalBlue vulnerability, compromised more than 200,000 victims in 150 countries. The vulnerability used older versions of Microsoft Windows to lock users' files and demand ransom to release them. Of concern, the victims could have avoided the compromise completely as a patch for the EternalBlue vulnerability had been freely available for more than two months. Further information about CVE-2019-0708 (BlueKeep) is available on Microsoft’s website . To report a cybercrime, visit cyber.gov.au . Background Microsoft has advised that a remote code execution vulnerability exists within its Windows Remote Desktop Services (RDS) when an unauthenticated attacker connects to the target system using Remote Desktop Protocols (RDP) and sends specially crafted requests. The vulnerability requires no user interaction and occurs pre-authentication. Attackers can use this exploitation to execute arbitrary code in target systems and then install programs or create new accounts with full user rights. An attacker only needs to send a specially crafted request to the target systems RDS, through an RDP, to exploit the vulnerability. The CVE-2019-0708 update addresses the vulnerability by correcting how Remote Desktop Services handle connection requests. Impact A Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) service left unpatched is likely exposed and potentially exploitable. The BlueKeep vulnerability equally applies to both external and internal facing RDP and can enable malicious actors to move laterally in a network. Motivated actors are already scanning the Australian environment looking for unpatched systems to exploit. The BlueKeep vulnerability is readily available to weaponise and exploit as it has no pre-conditions, other than being able to access RDP on an unpatched operating system. A malicious actor using email or the web as a vector to deliver executable content to a system that calls on internal RDP resources would likely be highly successful and could be just as effective as WannaCry. 06 Jun 2019 Mitigation for Microsoft Windows Security Vulnerability – ‘BlueKeep’ (CVE-2019-0708) Content written for Individuals & families Small & medium businesses Organisations & critical infrastructure Government View all content First published: 06 Jun 2019 Last updated: 06 Jun 2019 Share on Was this information helpful? Was this information helpful? Yes No Thanks for your feedback! Thanks for your feedback! Optional Tell us why this information was helpful and we’ll work on making more pages like it Report a cyber security incident for critical infrastructure Get alerts on new threats Alert Service Become an ACSC partner Report a cybercrime or cyber security incident About the ACSC News & Alerts View all content Contact us Accessibility Copyright Disclaimer Privacy Australian Cyber Security Hotline 1300 CYBER1 (1300 292 371) Authorised by the Australian Government, Canberra Back to top