Phone and email scammers impersonating the ACSC | Cyber.gov.au Skip to main content Australian Government - Australian cyber security centre Menu Report Search Contact us Portal login Megamenu Individuals & Families Individuals and families Practical steps to keep yourself and your family secure About this section Have you been hacked? About this section Report a cybercrime Step-by-Step Guides Common cyber threats Easy steps to stay secure Personal security guides Protect yourself and your family Quick wins Recover and get help Subscribe to the ACSC alert service View all content Small & Medium Businesses Small & medium businesses How to protect your business and staff from common cyber threats About this section Have you been hacked? About this section Report a cybercrime Step-by-Step Guides Getting your business back up and running Protecting your business online Quick Wins Register for products and services Securing your business tools Small Business Cyber Security Guide Small Business Survey results First Nations business resources View all content Organisations & Critical Infrastructure Organisations & Critical Infrastructure Understand how to protect your organisation from cyber threats About this section About this section Report a cyber security incident Become an ACSC partner Critical infrastructure Large organisations Operational technology Alerts & advisories Programs Information Security Manual Strategies to Mitigate Cyber Security Incidents Essential Eight Publications Cloud Security Guidance View all content Government Government Strategies to protect your organisation from cyber threats About this section About this section Report a cyber security incident Become an ACSC partner Alerts & advisories Programs Information Security Manual Strategies to Mitigate Cyber Security Incidents Essential Eight Publications Guidance Cloud security guidance Cyber supply chain guidance Email hardening guidance Gateway and Cross Domain Solution guidance Governance guidance Miscellaneous guidance Operational technology guidance People-centred guidance Remote working guidance Secure mobility guidance System administration guidance System hardening guidance System monitoring guidance Web hardening guidance View all content Learn Learn Interactive tools and advice to boost your online safety Learn cyber security Sign up for alerts Explore topics Update your devices Set up and perform regular backups Turn on multi-factor authentication Set secure passphrases Recognise and report scams Watch out for threats View resources Glossary Resources library Quiz library Translated Information Contact us Report a cybercrime or cyber security incident Portal login Australian Cyber Security Hotline 1300 CYBER1 (1300 292 371) Phone and email scammers impersonating the ACSC You are here Home About the ACSC View all content View all alerts Phone and email scammers impersonating the ACSC The Australian government will NEVER phone you to request access to your computer, or request you to purchase cryptocurrencies or gift cards. If you receive a suspicious phone call, take the caller's details, hang up and contact the company they claim to represent via official communication channels listed on their website. Never call a number provided by the scammer. Alert status MEDIUM If you receive an email from the Australian Cyber Security Centre (ACSC) and you wish to verify that it is legitimate, please contact us on 1300 CYBER1. The ACSC is aware of phone calls and emails from scammers claiming to be ACSC employees or stating they are working in collaboration with the ACSC. Scammers are calling from ‘spoofed’ Australian phone numbers, offering to resolve malware issues or requesting assistance in the apprehension of cybercriminals. The scammers are requesting details of the individual’s network and devices, including their IP address, and guiding the individual to download remote access applications such as ‘TeamViewer’ or ‘AnyDesk’ giving the scammer access to the individual’s computer. The scammer will then persuade the individual into revealing sensitive personal information by asking for copies of identity documents, or by suggesting the individual to log into their bank account. In addition to the calls, cybercriminals are masquerading as ACSC members in emails requesting recipients download ‘Antivirus’ software through a malicious link or advising the recipients personal information (user name and/or passwords) have been ‘compromised’. In these instances, cybercriminals are providing malicious email attachments . If clicked on, the link/ attachments downloads and installs malicious software to the individual’s computer. Scammers may also request the purchase of cryptocurrencies or gift cards to ‘help stop the criminals’, requesting secrecy, or threatening to arrest individuals who do not comply. If you have fallen victim to these phone calls or emails and paid money or exposed personal information, you can lodge a cybercrime report for assessment by police at https://www.cyber.gov.au/report . If you require assistance you can contact the ACSC via 1300 CYBER1. 04 Nov 2020 Protect yourself from remote access scams Content written for Individuals & families Small & medium businesses Organisations & critical infrastructure Government View all content First published: 04 Nov 2020 Last updated: 19 Jan 2022 Share on Was this information helpful? Was this information helpful? Yes No Thanks for your feedback! Thanks for your feedback! Optional Tell us why this information was helpful and we’ll work on making more pages like it Report a cyber security incident for critical infrastructure Get alerts on new threats Alert Service Become an ACSC partner Report a cybercrime or cyber security incident About the ACSC News & Alerts View all content Contact us Accessibility Copyright Disclaimer Privacy Australian Cyber Security Hotline 1300 CYBER1 (1300 292 371) Authorised by the Australian Government, Canberra Back to top