A Vulnerability in SonicWall SMA 100 Series Could Allow for Arbitrary File Deletion – BGD e-GOV CIRT | Bangladesh e-Government Computer Incident Response Team info@cirt.gov.bd +88-02-5500 7183 Home Services Articles Monthly Magazine News & Articles English Bangla Security Advisories & Alerts CVE CIRT In Media News Clipping Lecture Series Report Incident Report an Incident Statistics Traffic Light Protocol (TLP) Units Incident Handling Digital Forensic Lab Awareness Building Cyber Range Risk Assessment Unit Cyber Sensor Unit Cyber Threat Intelligence Unit IT Audit Unit Cyber Security Policy Development Unit About About us Team Organogram Contacts BGD e-GOV CIRT Service Catalogue Partners Events Documents Annual Report 2016 Mobile App Manual Bangla Ransomware Prevention & First Response Guideline Privacy Policy for Mobile App Acts/Policy Acts Policies Publications Gallery Notice Shop A Vulnerability in SonicWall SMA 100 Series Could Allow for Arbitrary File Deletion DESCRIPTION: A vulnerability has been discovered in SonicWall SMA100 Series that could allow for arbitrary file deletion. The SonicWall SMA 100 Series is a unified secure access gateway that enables organizations to provide access to any application, anytime, from anywhere, and any devices, including managed and unmanaged. Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could result in arbitrary file deletion which enables an attacker to reboot the device to factory default settings. Afterward, this could allow an unauthorized attacker to potentially gain admin access to the device. Depending on the privileges associated with the application, an attacker could install programs; view, change, or delete data; or create new accounts with full user rights. IMPACT: A vulnerability has been discovered in the SonicWall SMA 100 Series that could allow for arbitrary file deletion. The improper access control vulnerability in SMA100 allows a remote unauthenticated attacker to bypass the path traversal checks and delete an arbitrary file potentially resulting in a reboot to factory default settings. Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow an unauthorized attacker to potentially gain admin access on the device. Depending on the privileges associated with the application, an attacker could install programs; view, change, or delete data; or create new accounts with full user rights. SYSTEM AFFECTED: * SonicWall SMA 100 Series 9.0.0.10-28sv and earlier * SonicWall SMA 100 Series 10.2.0.7-34sv and earlier * SonicWall SMA 100 Series 10.2.1.0-17sv and earlier RECOMMENDATIONS: We recommend the following actions be taken: * Block external access at the network boundary, unless external parties require service. * If global access isn’t needed, filter access to the affected computer at the network boundary. Restricting access to only trusted computers and networks might greatly reduce the likelihood of successful exploits. * Run all software as a nonprivileged user with minimal access rights. To mitigate the impact of a successful exploit, run the affected application as a user with minimal access rights. * Deploy network intrusion detection systems to monitor network traffic for malicious activity. * Deploy NIDS to detect and block attacks and anomalous activity such as requests containing suspicious URI sequences. Since the webserver may log such requests, review its logs regularly. * Implement multiple redundant layers of security. Since this issue may be leveraged to execute code, we recommend memory-protection schemes, such as nonexecutable stack/heap configurations and randomly mapped memory segments. This tactic may complicate exploit attempts of memory-corruption vulnerabilities. REFERENCES: https://psirt.global.sonicwall.com/vuln-detail/SNWLID-2021-0021 http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2021-20034 Published: 20 December 2021, 16:00:44 BST Share Recommended Posts New PHP information-stealing malware targets Facebook accounts 16 Oct 2022 - Security Advisories & Alerts Magniber ransomware now infects Windows users via JavaScript files 16 Oct 2022 - Security Advisories & Alerts CVE-2022-41352: Remote Code Execution Vulnerability in Zimbra Collaboration Suite CVSS 3.0: 9.8 (Critical) 16 Oct 2022 - Security Advisories & Alerts Subscribe here Subscribe For Latest Updates Name* Email* Important links National Portal BNDA Post & Telecom Division Access to Information Project Prime Minister's Office Ministry of Public Administration ICT Division MEMBER OF: BGD e-GOV CIRT Bangladesh Computer Council, E-14/X, ICT Tower, Agargaon, Dhaka-1207, Bangladesh Contact us Phone: +880255007183 I Email: info@cirt.gov.bd Social Media BGD e-GOV CIRT App