Multiple Vulnerabilities in Cisco Webex Could Allow for Arbitrary Code Execution – BGD e-GOV CIRT | Bangladesh e-Government Computer Incident Response Team info@cirt.gov.bd +88-02-5500 7183 Home Services Articles Monthly Magazine News & Articles English Bangla Security Advisories & Alerts CVE CIRT In Media News Clipping Lecture Series Report Incident Report an Incident Statistics Traffic Light Protocol (TLP) Units Incident Handling Digital Forensic Lab Awareness Building Cyber Range Risk Assessment Unit Cyber Sensor Unit Cyber Threat Intelligence Unit IT Audit Unit Cyber Security Policy Development Unit About About us Team Organogram Contacts BGD e-GOV CIRT Service Catalogue Partners Events Documents Annual Report 2016 Mobile App Manual Bangla Ransomware Prevention & First Response Guideline Privacy Policy for Mobile App Acts/Policy Acts Policies Publications Gallery Notice Shop Multiple Vulnerabilities in Cisco Webex Could Allow for Arbitrary Code Execution DESCRIPTION: Multiple vulnerabilities have been discovered in Cisco Webex Network Recording Player and Cisco Webex Player that could allow for arbitrary code execution. The Webex meeting service is a hosted multimedia conferencing solution that is managed and maintained by Cisco Webex. The Webex Network Recording Player is an application that is used to convert Webex recording files to standard formats such as Windows Media Video, Flash or MP4. The Webex Player is an application that is used to play back and edit recorded Webex meeting files. Successful exploitation of the most severe of these vulnerabilities could allow an unauthenticated, remote attacker to execute code on the affected systems with the privileges of the targeted user. Depending on the privileges associated with the targeted user, an attacker could then install programs; view, change, or delete data; or create new accounts with full user rights. Users configured to have fewer privileges on the system could be less impacted than those who operate with elevated privileges. IMPACT: Multiple vulnerabilities have been discovered in Cisco Webex Network Recording Player and Cisco Webex Player that could allow for arbitrary code execution with the privileges of the targeted user. Details of the vulnerabilities are as follows: * Multiple vulnerabilities exist due to an insufficient validation of values within Webex recording files formatted as either Advanced Recording Format (ARF) or Webex Recording Format (WRF). An attacker could exploit the vulnerability by sending a user a malicious ARF or WRF file through a link or email attachment and persuading the user to open the file. A successful exploit could allow the attacker to execute arbitrary code on the affected system with the privileges of the targeted user. (CVE-2021-1502, CVE-2021-1503) Successful exploitation of these vulnerabilities could allow for arbitrary code execution in the context of the targeted user. Depending on the privileges associated with the user, an attacker could then install programs; view, change, or delete data; or create new accounts with full user rights. Users whose accounts are configured to have fewer user rights on the system could be less impacted than those who operate with administrative user rights. SYSTEM AFFECTED: * Cisco Webex Player versions prior to 41.2 on Windows and MacOS (CVE-2021-1503) * Cisco Webex Network Recording Player versions prior to 41.2 on Windows and MacOS (CVE-2021-1503) * Cisco Webex Player versions prior to 41.4 on Windows and MacOS (CVE-2021-1502) * Cisco Webex Network Recording Player versions prior to 41.4 on Windows and MacOS (CVE-2021-1502) RECOMMENDATIONS: We recommend the following actions be taken: * Install the update provided by Cisco immediately after appropriate testing. * Run all software as a non-privileged user (one without administrative privileges) to diminish the effects of a successful attack. * Remind users not to visit websites or follow links provided by unknown or untrusted sources. * Inform and educate users regarding the threats posed by hypertext links contained in emails or attachments especially from un-trusted sources. * Apply the Principle of Least Privilege to all systems and services. REFERENCES: https://tools.cisco.com/security/center/content/CiscoSecurityAdvisory/cisco-sa-webex-player-dOJ2jOJ https://tools.cisco.com/security/center/content/CiscoSecurityAdvisory/cisco-sa-webex-player-rCFDeVj2 https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2021-1502 https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2021-1503 Share Recommended Posts New PHP information-stealing malware targets Facebook accounts 16 Oct 2022 - Security Advisories & Alerts Magniber ransomware now infects Windows users via JavaScript files 16 Oct 2022 - Security Advisories & Alerts CVE-2022-41352: Remote Code Execution Vulnerability in Zimbra Collaboration Suite CVSS 3.0: 9.8 (Critical) 16 Oct 2022 - Security Advisories & Alerts Subscribe here Subscribe For Latest Updates Name* Email* Important links National Portal BNDA Post & Telecom Division Access to Information Project Prime Minister's Office Ministry of Public Administration ICT Division MEMBER OF: BGD e-GOV CIRT Bangladesh Computer Council, E-14/X, ICT Tower, Agargaon, Dhaka-1207, Bangladesh Contact us Phone: +880255007183 I Email: info@cirt.gov.bd Social Media BGD e-GOV CIRT App