A Vulnerability in WordPress File Manager Plugin Could Allow for Remote Code Execution – BGD e-GOV CIRT | Bangladesh e-Government Computer Incident Response Team info@cirt.gov.bd +88-02-5500 7183 Home Services Articles Monthly Magazine News & Articles English Bangla Security Advisories & Alerts CVE CIRT In Media News Clipping Lecture Series Report Incident Report an Incident Statistics Traffic Light Protocol (TLP) Units Incident Handling Digital Forensic Lab Awareness Building Cyber Range Risk Assessment Unit Cyber Sensor Unit Cyber Threat Intelligence Unit IT Audit Unit Cyber Security Policy Development Unit About About us Team Organogram Contacts BGD e-GOV CIRT Service Catalogue Partners Events Documents Annual Report 2016 Mobile App Manual Bangla Ransomware Prevention & First Response Guideline Privacy Policy for Mobile App Acts/Policy Acts Policies Publications Gallery Notice Shop A Vulnerability in WordPress File Manager Plugin Could Allow for Remote Code Execution DESCRIPTION A vulnerability has been discovered in the File Manager plugin that could allow for remote code execution. WordPress is a web-based publishing application implemented in PHP, and the File Manager Plugin allows site Admins to upload, edit, delete files and folders directly from the WordPress backend without having to use FTP. Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow for remote code execution in the context of the application. Depending on the privileges associated with the application, an attacker could then install programs; view, change, or delete data; or create new accounts with full user rights. Application accounts that are configured to have fewer user rights on the system could be less impacted than those that operate with administrative user rights. IMPACT A vulnerability has been discovered in the File Manager plugin that could allow for remote code execution. This vulnerability exists due to the improper inclusion of an open-source file manager library called elFinder. It appears that the file “connector.minimal.php-dist” was stored in an executable format (renamed to .php) and the file “could be accessed by anyone”. An attacker could exploit this flaw by sending a specially crafted request to the connector.minimal.php file which can lead to remote code execution in the context of the application. Depending on the privileges associated with the application, an attacker could then install programs; view, change, or delete data; or create new accounts with full user rights. Application accounts that are configured to have fewer user rights on the system could be less impacted than those that operate with administrative user rights. SYSTEM AFFECTED • File Manager versions 6.0 – 6.8 RECOMMENDATIONS Following actions are recommended to be taken: • Apply appropriate updates provided by File Manager to affected systems, immediately after appropriate testing. • Apply the Principle of Least Privilege to all systems and services. • Verify no unauthorized system modifications have occurred on system before applying patch. • Monitor intrusion detection systems for any signs of anomalous activity. • Unless required, limit external network access to affected products. REFERENCES • https://www.wordfence.com/blog/2020/09/700000-wordpress-users-affected-by-zero-day-vulnerability-in-file-manager-plugin/ • https://www.cisecurity.org/advisory/a-vulnerability-in-wordpress-file-manager-plugin-could-allow-for-remote-code-execution_2020-123/ • https://github.com/w4fz5uck5/wp-file-manager-0day Share Recommended Posts New PHP information-stealing malware targets Facebook accounts 16 Oct 2022 - Security Advisories & Alerts Magniber ransomware now infects Windows users via JavaScript files 16 Oct 2022 - Security Advisories & Alerts CVE-2022-41352: Remote Code Execution Vulnerability in Zimbra Collaboration Suite CVSS 3.0: 9.8 (Critical) 16 Oct 2022 - Security Advisories & Alerts Subscribe here Subscribe For Latest Updates Name* Email* Important links National Portal BNDA Post & Telecom Division Access to Information Project Prime Minister's Office Ministry of Public Administration ICT Division MEMBER OF: BGD e-GOV CIRT Bangladesh Computer Council, E-14/X, ICT Tower, Agargaon, Dhaka-1207, Bangladesh Contact us Phone: +880255007183 I Email: info@cirt.gov.bd Social Media BGD e-GOV CIRT App