Half a million Huawei Android phones hit by Joker malware – BGD e-GOV CIRT | Bangladesh e-Government Computer Incident Response Team info@cirt.gov.bd +88-02-5500 7183 Home Services Articles Monthly Magazine News & Articles English Bangla Security Advisories & Alerts CVE CIRT In Media News Clipping Lecture Series Report Incident Report an Incident Statistics Traffic Light Protocol (TLP) Units Incident Handling Digital Forensic Lab Awareness Building Cyber Range Risk Assessment Unit Cyber Sensor Unit Cyber Threat Intelligence Unit IT Audit Unit Cyber Security Policy Development Unit About About us Team Organogram Contacts BGD e-GOV CIRT Service Catalogue Partners Events Documents Annual Report 2016 Mobile App Manual Bangla Ransomware Prevention & First Response Guideline Privacy Policy for Mobile App Acts/Policy Acts Policies Publications Gallery Notice Shop Half a million Huawei Android phones hit by Joker malware Security researchers have found over 500,000 Huawei smartphone users have downloaded applications tainted with the Joker malware that unwittingly subscribes users to premium mobile services. A report from antivirus maker Doctor Web notes that the malicious apps retained their advertised functionality but downloaded components that subscribed users to premium mobile services. To keep users in the dark the infected apps requested access to notifications, which allowed them to intercept confirmation codes delivered over SMS by the subscription service. According to the researchers, the malware could subscribe a user to a maximum of five services, although the threat actor could modify this limitation at any time. The list of malicious applications included virtual keyboards, a camera app, a launcher, an online messenger, a sticker collection, coloring programs, and a game. Once the malware is launched, users interact with full-fledged applications. However, behind the mask of harmless software, the trojans connect to the C&C server, receive necessary configuration and download one of the additional components, which is then launched. The downloaded component is responsible for automatically subscribing Android device users to premium mobile services. In addition, the decoy apps request access to notifications that they will later need to intercept incoming SMS from premium services with subscription confirmation codes. The same apps set the limit on the number of successfully activated premium services for each user. Organizations can help defend against types of malware like Joker by abiding by mobile security best practices. Always have antimalware installed on user’s smartphone and ensure users that regularly scan for infections. User will need to pay closer attention to what the apps on user phone actually do. When user launch an app for the first time, Android will alert to what the app is trying to do. The app may request access to user’s camera, address book, SMS messages etc. When smartphone user see these prompts user should think – “Does this app really need access tos messages or address book?”  User awareness is very important role for this type of malicious app activity. Always take a time to read any alerts when installing apps as they often reveal something unexpected – and unwanted – may be happening. If smartphone user is ever unsure, or have any doubts at all, simply deny the request or uninstall the app entirely. For more information & reference: https://vms.drweb.com/virus/?i=24141381 https://news.drweb.com/show/?i=14182&lng=en https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/joker-malware-infects-over-500-000-huawei-android-devices/ Joker Malware is no Joke https://securityintelligence.com/news/joker-malware-hits-google-play-with-17-variants/ Share Recommended Posts New PHP information-stealing malware targets Facebook accounts 16 Oct 2022 - Security Advisories & Alerts Magniber ransomware now infects Windows users via JavaScript files 16 Oct 2022 - Security Advisories & Alerts CVE-2022-41352: Remote Code Execution Vulnerability in Zimbra Collaboration Suite CVSS 3.0: 9.8 (Critical) 16 Oct 2022 - Security Advisories & Alerts Subscribe here Subscribe For Latest Updates Name* Email* Important links National Portal BNDA Post & Telecom Division Access to Information Project Prime Minister's Office Ministry of Public Administration ICT Division MEMBER OF: BGD e-GOV CIRT Bangladesh Computer Council, E-14/X, ICT Tower, Agargaon, Dhaka-1207, Bangladesh Contact us Phone: +880255007183 I Email: info@cirt.gov.bd Social Media BGD e-GOV CIRT App