New PHP information-stealing malware targets Facebook accounts – BGD e-GOV CIRT | Bangladesh e-Government Computer Incident Response Team info@cirt.gov.bd +88-02-5500 7183 Home Services Articles Monthly Magazine News & Articles English Bangla Security Advisories & Alerts CVE CIRT In Media News Clipping Lecture Series Report Incident Report an Incident Statistics Traffic Light Protocol (TLP) Units Incident Handling Digital Forensic Lab Awareness Building Cyber Range Risk Assessment Unit Cyber Sensor Unit Cyber Threat Intelligence Unit IT Audit Unit Cyber Security Policy Development Unit About About us Team Organogram Contacts BGD e-GOV CIRT Service Catalogue Partners Events Documents Annual Report 2016 Mobile App Manual Bangla Ransomware Prevention & First Response Guideline Privacy Policy for Mobile App Acts/Policy Acts Policies Publications Gallery Notice Shop New PHP information-stealing malware targets Facebook accounts A new Ducktail phishing campaign is spreading a never-before-seen Windows information-stealing malware written in PHP used to steal Facebook accounts, browser data, and cryptocurrency wallets. Ducktail phishing campaigns were first revealed by researchers from WithSecure in July 2022, who linked the attacks to Vietnamese hackers. Those campaigns relied on social engineering attacks through LinkedIn, pushing .NET Core malware masquerading as a PDF document supposedly containing details about a marketing project. The malware targeted information stored in browsers, focusing on Facebook Business account data, and exfiltrated it to a private Telegram channel that acted as a C2 server. These stolen credentials are then used for financial fraud or to conduct malicious advertising. Zscaler now reports spotting signs of new activity involving a refreshed Ducktail campaign that uses a PHP script to act as a Windows information-stealing malware. A PHP information-stealing malware Ducktail has now replaced the older NET Core information-stealing malware used in previous campaigns with one written in PHP. Most of the fake lures for this campaign are related to games, subtitle files, adult videos, and cracked MS Office applications. These are hosted in ZIP format on legitimate file hosting services. When executed, the installation takes place in the background while the victim sees fake ‘Checking Application Compatibility’ pop-ups in the frontend, waiting for a fake application sent by the scammers to install. The malware will ultimately be extracted to the %LocalAppData%\Packages\PXT folder, which includes the PHP.exe local interpreter, various scripts used to steal information, and supporting tools, as shown below. Ducktail’s PHP information-stealing malware Source: BleepingComputer The PHP malware achieves persistence by adding scheduled tasks on the host to execute daily and at regular intervals. At the same time, a generated TMP file runs a parallel process to launch the stealer component. New Ducktail attack flow (Zscaler) The stealer’s code is an obfuscated (Base64) PHP script, which is deciphered directly on memory without touching the disk, minimizing the chances of being detected. The stealer’s code (Zscaler) The targeted data includes extensive Facebook account details, sensitive data stored in browsers, browser cookies, cryptocurrency wallet and account information, and basic system data. The collected information isn’t exfiltrated to Telegram anymore but instead stored in a JSON website that also hosts account tokens and data required to perform on-device fraud. Expanding the targeting scope In the previous campaign, Ducktail targeted employees of organizations working in the financial or marketing department of companies who would likely have permission to create and run advertising campaigns on the social media platform. The goal was to take control of those accounts and direct payments to their bank accounts or run their own Facebook campaigns to promote Ducktail to more victims. In the latest campaign, however, Zscaler noticed that the targeting scope has been broadened to include regular Facebook users and to siphon whatever valuable information they may have stored in their accounts. Still, if the account type is determined to be a business account, the malware will attempt to fetch additional information about payment methods, cycles, amounts spent, owner details, verification status, owned pages, PayPal address, and more. Targeting Facebook details (Zscaler) Ducktail’s evolution and attempt to evade subsequent monitoring by security researchers indicates that the threat actors aim to continue their profitable operations. Users are advised to be watchful with instant messages on LinkedIn and treat file download requests with extra caution, especially cracked software, game mods, and cheats. Source: https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/new-php-information-stealing-malware-targets-facebook-accounts/ Share Recommended Posts Magniber ransomware now infects Windows users via JavaScript files 16 Oct 2022 - Security Advisories & Alerts CVE-2022-41352: Remote Code Execution Vulnerability in Zimbra Collaboration Suite CVSS 3.0: 9.8 (Critical) 16 Oct 2022 - Security Advisories & Alerts Top CVEs Actively Exploited By malicious cyber actor 16 Oct 2022 - Security Advisories & Alerts Subscribe here Subscribe For Latest Updates Name* Email* Important links National Portal BNDA Post & Telecom Division Access to Information Project Prime Minister's Office Ministry of Public Administration ICT Division MEMBER OF: BGD e-GOV CIRT Bangladesh Computer Council, E-14/X, ICT Tower, Agargaon, Dhaka-1207, Bangladesh Contact us Phone: +880255007183 I Email: info@cirt.gov.bd Social Media BGD e-GOV CIRT App