Multiple Vulnerabilities in Apple Products Could Allow for Arbitrary Code Execution – BGD e-GOV CIRT | Bangladesh e-Government Computer Incident Response Team info@cirt.gov.bd +88-02-5500 7183 Home Services Articles Monthly Magazine News & Articles English Bangla Security Advisories & Alerts CVE CIRT In Media News Clipping Lecture Series Report Incident Report an Incident Statistics Traffic Light Protocol (TLP) Units Incident Handling Digital Forensic Lab Awareness Building Cyber Range Risk Assessment Unit Cyber Sensor Unit Cyber Threat Intelligence Unit IT Audit Unit Cyber Security Policy Development Unit About About us Team Organogram Contacts BGD e-GOV CIRT Service Catalogue Partners Events Documents Annual Report 2016 Mobile App Manual Bangla Ransomware Prevention & First Response Guideline Privacy Policy for Mobile App Acts/Policy Acts Policies Publications Gallery Notice Shop Multiple Vulnerabilities in Apple Products Could Allow for Arbitrary Code Execution DESCRIPTION Multiple vulnerabilities have been discovered in iCloud for Windows and macOS. The most severe of these vulnerabilities could allow for arbitrary code execution. macOS is a desktop operating system for Macintosh computers. iCloud is a cloud storage service that can be used on Windows computers. Successful exploitation of the most severe of these vulnerabilities could result in arbitrary code execution within the context of the application, an attacker gaining the same privileges as the logged-on user, or the bypassing of security restrictions. Depending on the privileges associated with the user, an attacker could then install programs; view, change, or delete data; or create new accounts with full user rights. Users whose accounts are configured to have fewer user rights on the system could be less impacted than those who operate with administrative user rights. IMPACT Multiple vulnerabilities have been discovered in iCloud for Windows and macOS. The most severe of these vulnerabilities could allow for arbitrary code execution. Details of these vulnerabilities are as follows: An out-of-bounds read vulnerability in ImageIO, which could allow for arbitrary code execution, was addressed with improved input validation. (CVE-2020-9961) A vulnerability in Mail, which could allow for a remote attacker to unexpectedly alter application state, was addressed with improved checks. (CVE-2020-9941) An out-of-bounds read vulnerability in Model I/O, which could allow for arbitrary code execution or unexpected application termination, was addressed with improved bounds checking. (CVE-2020-9973) A vulnerability in Sandbox, which could allow for a malicious application to access restricted files, was addressed with improved restrictions. (CVE-2020-9968) A vulnerability in WebKit, which could allow for a cross site scripting attack, was addressed with improved input validation. (CVE-2020-9952) Successful exploitation of the most severe of these vulnerabilities could result in arbitrary code execution within the context of the application, an attacker gaining the same privileges as the logged-on user, or the bypassing of security restrictions. Depending on the privileges associated with the user, an attacker could then install programs; view, change, or delete data; or create new accounts with full user rights. Users whose accounts are configured to have fewer user rights on the system could be less impacted than those who operate with administrative user rights. SYSTEM AFFECTED macOS prior to High Sierra 10.15.7, Security Update 2020-005 High Sierra, Security Update 2020-005 Mojave iCloud for Windows prior to 11.4 RECOMMENDATIONS Following actions are recommended to be taken: Apply appropriate patches provided by Apple to vulnerable systems immediately after appropriate testing. Run all software as a non-privileged user (one without administrative privileges) to diminish the effects of a successful attack. Remind users not to download, accept, or execute files from un-trusted or unknown sources. Remind users not to visit untrusted websites or follow links provided by unknown or un-trusted sources. Apply the Principle of Least Privilege to all systems and services. REFERENCES https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT211849 https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT211846 https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2020-9961 https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2020-9941 https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2020-9973 https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2020-9968 https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2020-9952 Share Recommended Posts New PHP information-stealing malware targets Facebook accounts 16 Oct 2022 - Security Advisories & Alerts Magniber ransomware now infects Windows users via JavaScript files 16 Oct 2022 - Security Advisories & Alerts CVE-2022-41352: Remote Code Execution Vulnerability in Zimbra Collaboration Suite CVSS 3.0: 9.8 (Critical) 16 Oct 2022 - Security Advisories & Alerts Subscribe here Subscribe For Latest Updates Name* Email* Important links National Portal BNDA Post & Telecom Division Access to Information Project Prime Minister's Office Ministry of Public Administration ICT Division MEMBER OF: BGD e-GOV CIRT Bangladesh Computer Council, E-14/X, ICT Tower, Agargaon, Dhaka-1207, Bangladesh Contact us Phone: +880255007183 I Email: info@cirt.gov.bd Social Media BGD e-GOV CIRT App