A Vulnerability in Mozilla Firefox Could Allow for Arbitrary Code Execution – BGD e-GOV CIRT | Bangladesh e-Government Computer Incident Response Team info@cirt.gov.bd +88-02-5500 7183 Home Services Articles Monthly Magazine News & Articles English Bangla Security Advisories & Alerts CVE CIRT In Media News Clipping Lecture Series Report Incident Report an Incident Statistics Traffic Light Protocol (TLP) Units Incident Handling Digital Forensic Lab Awareness Building Cyber Range Risk Assessment Unit Cyber Sensor Unit Cyber Threat Intelligence Unit IT Audit Unit Cyber Security Policy Development Unit About About us Team Organogram Contacts BGD e-GOV CIRT Service Catalogue Partners Events Documents Annual Report 2016 Mobile App Manual Bangla Ransomware Prevention & First Response Guideline Privacy Policy for Mobile App Acts/Policy Acts Policies Publications Gallery Notice Shop A Vulnerability in Mozilla Firefox Could Allow for Arbitrary Code Execution DESCRIPTION A vulnerability has been discovered in Mozilla Firefox, Firefox Extended Support Release (ESR) and Firefox for Android, which could allow for arbitrary code execution. Mozilla Firefox is a web browser used to access the Internet. Mozilla Firefox ESR is a version of the web browser intended to be deployed in large organizations. Firefox for Android is a version of the web browser used on Android based mobile devices. Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow for arbitrary code execution. Depending on the privileges associated with the user an attacker could then install programs; view, change, or delete data; or create new accounts with full user rights. Users whose accounts are configured to have fewer user rights on the system could be less impacted than those who operate with administrative user rights. IMPACT A vulnerability has been discovered in Mozilla Firefox, Mozilla Firefox Extended Support Release (ESR), and Firefox for Android, the most severe of which could allow for arbitrary code execution. Mozilla Firefox is a web browser used to access the Internet. Mozilla Firefox ESR is a version of the web browser intended to be deployed in large organizations. Firefox for Android is a version of the web browser used on Android based mobile devices. Details of the vulnerability are as follows: *In certain circumstances, the COOKIE-ECHO chunk in an SCTP packet can be modified in a way that results in an exploitable use-after-free condition. (CVE-2020-16044) Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow for arbitrary code execution. Depending on the privileges associated with the user an attacker could then install programs; view, change, or delete data; or create new accounts with full user rights. Users whose accounts are configured to have fewer user rights on the system could be less impacted than those who operate with administrative user rights. SYSTEM AFFECTED *Mozilla Firefox versions prior to 84.0.2 *Mozilla Firefox ESR versions prior to 78.6.1 *Firefox for Android versions prior to 84.1.3 RECOMMENDATIONS Following actions are recommended to be taken: *Apply appropriate updates provided by Mozilla to vulnerable systems, immediately after appropriate testing. *Run all software as a non-privileged user (one without administrative privileges) to diminish the effects of a successful attack. *Remind users not to visit un-trusted websites or follow links provided by unknown or un-trusted sources. *Inform and educate users regarding the threats posed by hypertext links contained in emails or attachments especially from un-trusted sources. *Apply the Principle of Least Privilege to all systems and services. REFERENCES https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/security/advisories/mfsa2021-01/#CVE-2020-16044 https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2020-16044 Share Recommended Posts New PHP information-stealing malware targets Facebook accounts 16 Oct 2022 - Security Advisories & Alerts Magniber ransomware now infects Windows users via JavaScript files 16 Oct 2022 - Security Advisories & Alerts CVE-2022-41352: Remote Code Execution Vulnerability in Zimbra Collaboration Suite CVSS 3.0: 9.8 (Critical) 16 Oct 2022 - Security Advisories & Alerts Subscribe here Subscribe For Latest Updates Name* Email* Important links National Portal BNDA Post & Telecom Division Access to Information Project Prime Minister's Office Ministry of Public Administration ICT Division MEMBER OF: BGD e-GOV CIRT Bangladesh Computer Council, E-14/X, ICT Tower, Agargaon, Dhaka-1207, Bangladesh Contact us Phone: +880255007183 I Email: info@cirt.gov.bd Social Media BGD e-GOV CIRT App