Multiple Vulnerabilities in Google Chrome Could Allow for Arbitrary Code Execution – BGD e-GOV CIRT | Bangladesh e-Government Computer Incident Response Team info@cirt.gov.bd +88-02-5500 7183 Home Services Articles Monthly Magazine News & Articles English Bangla Security Advisories & Alerts CVE CIRT In Media News Clipping Lecture Series Report Incident Report an Incident Statistics Traffic Light Protocol (TLP) Units Incident Handling Digital Forensic Lab Awareness Building Cyber Range Risk Assessment Unit Cyber Sensor Unit Cyber Threat Intelligence Unit IT Audit Unit Cyber Security Policy Development Unit About About us Team Organogram Contacts BGD e-GOV CIRT Service Catalogue Partners Events Documents Annual Report 2016 Mobile App Manual Bangla Ransomware Prevention & First Response Guideline Privacy Policy for Mobile App Acts/Policy Acts Policies Publications Gallery Notice Shop Multiple Vulnerabilities in Google Chrome Could Allow for Arbitrary Code Execution DESCRIPTION Multiple vulnerabilities have been discovered in Google Chrome, the most severe of which could allow for arbitrary code execution. Google Chrome is a web browser used to access the Internet. Successful exploitation of the most severe of these vulnerabilities could allow an attacker to execute arbitrary code in the context of the browser. Depending on the privileges associated with the application, an attacker could view, change, or delete data. If this application has been configured to have fewer user rights on the system, exploitation of the most severe of these vulnerabilities could have less impact than if it was configured with administrative rights. IMPACT Multiple vulnerabilities have been discovered in Google Chrome, the most severe of which could allow for arbitrary code execution. These vulnerabilities can be exploited if a user visits, or is redirected to, a specially crafted web page. Details of the vulnerabilities are as follows: • CVE-2020-6459: Use after free in payments. • CVE-2020-6460: Insufficient data validation in URL formatting. • CVE-2020-6458: Out of bounds read and write in PDFium. Successful exploitation of the most severe of these vulnerabilities could allow an attacker to execute arbitrary code in the context of the browser. Depending on the privileges associated with the application, an attacker could view, change, or delete data. If this application has been configured to have fewer user rights on the system, exploitation of the most severe of these vulnerabilities could have less impact than if it was configured with administrative rights. SYSTEM AFFECTED • Google Chrome versions prior to 81.0.4044.122 RECOMMENDATIONS Following actions are recommended to be taken: • Apply the stable channel update provided by Google to vulnerable systems immediately after appropriate testing. • Run all software as a non-privileged user (one without administrative privileges) to diminish the effects of a successful attack. • Remind users not to visit un-trusted websites or follow links provided by unknown or un-trusted sources. • Inform and educate users regarding the threats posed by hypertext links contained in emails or attachments especially from un-trusted sources. • Apply the Principle of Least Privilege to all systems and services. REFERENCES https://chromereleases.googleblog.com/2020/04/stable-channel-update-for-desktop_21.html https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2020-6458 https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2020-6459 https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2020-6460 https://www.cisecurity.org/advisory/multiple-vulnerabilities-in-google-chrome-could-allow-for-arbitrary-code-execution_2020-054/ Share Recommended Posts New PHP information-stealing malware targets Facebook accounts 16 Oct 2022 - Security Advisories & Alerts Magniber ransomware now infects Windows users via JavaScript files 16 Oct 2022 - Security Advisories & Alerts CVE-2022-41352: Remote Code Execution Vulnerability in Zimbra Collaboration Suite CVSS 3.0: 9.8 (Critical) 16 Oct 2022 - Security Advisories & Alerts Subscribe here Subscribe For Latest Updates Name* Email* Important links National Portal BNDA Post & Telecom Division Access to Information Project Prime Minister's Office Ministry of Public Administration ICT Division MEMBER OF: BGD e-GOV CIRT Bangladesh Computer Council, E-14/X, ICT Tower, Agargaon, Dhaka-1207, Bangladesh Contact us Phone: +880255007183 I Email: info@cirt.gov.bd Social Media BGD e-GOV CIRT App