Adobe Reader and Acrobat Security Updates and Architectural Improvements | CISA Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. CISA.gov Services Report Toggle navigation CISA.gov Services Report CertMain Menu Alerts and Tips Resources Industrial Control Systems TLP:WHITE TLP:WHITE National Cyber Awareness System > Alerts > Adobe Reader and Acrobat Security Updates and Architectural Improvements More Alerts Alert (TA12-101B) Adobe Reader and Acrobat Security Updates and Architectural Improvements Original release date: April 10, 2012  | Last revised : January 24, 2013 Systems Affected Adobe Reader X (10.1.2) and earlier 10.x versions for Windows and Macintosh Adobe Reader 9.5 and earlier 9.x versions for Windows, Macintosh, and UNIX Adobe Acrobat X (10.1.2) and earlier 10.x versions for Windows and Macintosh Adobe Acrobat 9.5 and earlier 9.x versions for Windows and Macintosh Overview Adobe has released Security Bulletin APSB12-08 , which describes multiple vulnerabilities affecting Adobe Reader and Acrobat. As part of this update, Adobe Reader and Acrobat 9.x will use the system-wide Flash Player browser plug-in instead of the Authplay component. In addition, Reader and Acrobat now disable the rendering of 3D content by default. Description Adobe Security Bulletin APSB12-08 describes a number of vulnerabilities affecting Adobe Reader and Acrobat. These vulnerabilities affect Adobe Reader and Acrobat versions 9.x through 9.5, and Reader X and Acrobat X versions prior to 10.1.3. The Adobe ASSET blog provides additional details on new security architecture changes to Adobe Reader and Acrobat. Adobe Reader and Acrobat 9.5.1 will use the Adobe Flash Player plug-in version installed on the user’s system rather than the Authplay component that ships with Adobe Reader and Acrobat. This change helps limit the number of out-of-date, vulnerable Flash runtimes available to an attacker. Adobe Reader and Acrobat 9.5.1 also now disable rendering of 3D content by default because the 3D rendering components have a history of vulnerabilities . US-CERT recommends that Flash users upgrade to the latest version of Adobe Flash Player and turn on automatic updates. An attacker could exploit these vulnerabilities by convincing a user to open a specially crafted PDF file. This can happen automatically as the result of viewing a webpage. Impact These vulnerabilities could allow a remote attacker to execute arbitrary code, write arbitrary files or folders to the file system, escalate local privileges, or cause a denial of service on an affected system as the result of a user opening a malicious PDF file. Solution Update Reader Adobe has released updates to address this issue. Users are encouraged to read Adobe Security Bulletin APSB12-08 and update vulnerable versions of Adobe Reader and Acrobat. In addition to updating, please consider the following mitigations. Disable JavaScript in Adobe Reader and Acrobat Disabling JavaScript may prevent some exploits from resulting in code execution. You can disable Acrobat JavaScript using the Preferences menu ( Edit -> Preferences -> JavaScript ; uncheck Enable Acrobat JavaScript ). Adobe provides a framework to blacklist specific JavaScipt APIs . If JavaScript must be enabled, this framework may be useful when specific APIs are known to be vulnerable or used in attacks. Prevent Internet Explorer from automatically opening PDF files The installer for Adobe Reader and Acrobat configures Internet Explorer to automatically open PDF files without any user interaction. This behavior can be reverted to a safer option that prompts the user by importing the following as a .REG file: Windows Registry Editor Version 5.00 [HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT\AcroExch.Document.7] "EditFlags"=hex:00,00,00,00 Disable the display of PDF files in the web browser Preventing PDF files from opening inside a web browser will partially mitigate this vulnerability. Applying this workaround may also mitigate future vulnerabilities. To prevent PDF files from automatically being opened in a web browser, do the following: 1. Open Adobe Acrobat Reader. 2. Open the Edit menu. 3. Choose the Preferences option. 4. Choose the Internet section. 5. Uncheck the " Display PDF in browser " checkbox. Do not access PDF files from untrusted sources Do not open unfamiliar or unexpected PDF files, particularly those hosted on websites or delivered as email attachments. Please see Cyber Security Tip ST04-010 . References Security update available for Adobe Reader and Acrobat Adobe Reader and Acrobat JavaScript Blacklist Framework Background on Security Bulletin APSB12-08 Adobe Flash Player Adobe Flash vulnerability affects Flash Player and other Adobe products Vulnerability Notes with advice to disable 3D rendering Revisions April 10, 2012: Initial release This product is provided subject to this Notification and this Privacy & Use policy. Please share your thoughts. We recently updated our anonymous product survey ; we'd welcome your feedback. Contact Us (888)282-0870 Send us email Download PGP/GPG keys Submit website feedback Subscribe to Alerts Receive security alerts, tips, and other updates. Enter your email address HSIN Report Home Site Map FAQ Contact Us Traffic Light Protocol PCII Accountability Disclaimer Privacy Policy FOIA No Fear Act Accessibility Plain Writing Plug-ins Inspector General The White House USA.gov CISA is part of the Department of Homeland Security