Apple Updates for Multiple Vulnerabilities | CISA Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. CISA.gov Services Report Toggle navigation CISA.gov Services Report CertMain Menu Alerts and Tips Resources Industrial Control Systems TLP:WHITE TLP:WHITE National Cyber Awareness System > Archives Alerts > Apple Updates for Multiple Vulnerabilities This document is part of the US-CERT website archive. These documents are no longer updated and may contain outdated information. Links may also no longer function. Please contact info@us-cert.gov if you have any questions about the US-CERT website archive. More Alerts Alert (TA07-352A) Apple Updates for Multiple Vulnerabilities Original release date: December 18, 2007 Systems Affected Apple Mac OS X versions prior to and including 10.4.11 and 10.5.1 Apple Mac OS X Server versions prior to and including 10.4.11 and 10.5.1 These vulnerabilities affect both Intel and PowerPC platforms. Overview Apple has released Security Update 2007-009 to correct multiple vulnerabilities affecting Apple Mac OS X and Mac OS X
Server. Attackers could exploit these vulnerabilities to execute arbitrary code, gain access to sensitive information, surreptitiously initiate a video conference, or cause a denial of service. Description Apple Security Update 2007-009 addresses a number of vulnerabilities affecting Apple Mac OS X and OS X Server versions 10.4.11 and 10.5.1. Further details are available in the related vulnerability
notes . The update addresses vulnerabilities in other vendors' products that ship with Apple OS X or OS X Server. These products include: Adobe Flash Adobe Shockwave GNU Tar Impact The impacts of these vulnerabilities vary. Potential consequences include arbitrary code execution, sensitive information disclosure, surreptitious video conference initiation, and denial of service. Solution Install updates from Apple Install Apple Security Update 2007-009 . This and other updates are available
via Software Update or via Apple Downloads . References Vulnerability notes for Apple Security Update 2007-009 - http://www.kb.cert.org/vuls/byid?searchview&query=apple-2007-009 About Security Update 2007-009 - http://docs.info.apple.com/article.html?artnum=307179 Mac OS X: Updating your software - http://docs.info.apple.com/article.html?artnum=106704 Apple - Support - Downloads - http://www.apple.com/support/downloads/ Revision History December 18, 2007:  Initial release This product is provided subject to this Notification and this Privacy & Use policy. Please share your thoughts. We recently updated our anonymous product survey ; we'd welcome your feedback. Contact Us (888)282-0870 Send us email Download PGP/GPG keys Submit website feedback Subscribe to Alerts Receive security alerts, tips, and other updates. Enter your email address HSIN Report Home Site Map FAQ Contact Us Traffic Light Protocol PCII Accountability Disclaimer Privacy Policy FOIA No Fear Act Accessibility Plain Writing Plug-ins Inspector General The White House USA.gov CISA is part of the Department of Homeland Security