Microsoft Ending Support for Windows Server 2003 Operating System | CISA Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. CISA.gov Services Report Toggle navigation CISA.gov Services Report CertMain Menu Alerts and Tips Resources Industrial Control Systems TLP:WHITE TLP:WHITE National Cyber Awareness System > Alerts > Microsoft Ending Support for Windows Server 2003 Operating System More Alerts Alert (TA14-310A) Microsoft Ending Support for Windows Server 2003 Operating System Original release date: November 10, 2014  | Last revised : September 30, 2016 Systems Affected Microsoft Windows Server 2003 operating system Overview Microsoft is ending support for the Windows Server 2003 operating system on July 14, 2015. [1] After this date, this product will no longer receive: Security patches that help protect PCs from harmful viruses, spyware, and other malicious software Assisted technical support from Microsoft Software and content updates Description All software products have a lifecycle. End of support refers to the date when Microsoft will no longer provide automatic fixes, updates, or online technical assistance. [2] As of July 2014, there were 12 million physical servers worldwide still running Windows Server 2003. [3] Impact Computer systems running unsupported software are exposed to an elevated risk to cybersecurity dangers, such as malicious attacks or electronic data loss. Users may also encounter problems with software and hardware compatibility since new software applications and hardware devices may not be built for Windows Server 2003. Organizations that are governed by regulatory obligations may find they are no longer able to satisfy compliance requirements while running Windows Server 2003. Solution Computers running the Windows Server 2003 operating system will continue to work after support ends. However, using unsupported software may increase the risks of viruses and other security threats. Negative consequences could include loss of confidentiality, integrity, and or availability of data, system resources and business assets. The Microsoft "Microsoft Support Lifecycle Policy FAQ" page offers additional details. [2] Users have the option to upgrade to a currently supported operating system or other cloud-based services. There are software vendors and service providers in the marketplace who offer assistance in migrating from Windows Server 2003 to a currently supported operating system or SaaS (software as a service) / IaaS (infrastructure as a service) products and services.[ 4 , 5 ] US-CERT does not endorse or support any particular product or vendor. References [1] Microsoft Product Lifecycle Listing [2] Microsoft Support Lifecycle Policy FAQ [3] Redmond Magazine, Prepare for Windows Server 2003's End of Support [4] Windows Server 2003 Migration Support [5] TechTarget, Weighing next steps following Windows Server 2003 end-of-life Revisions November 10, 2014: Initial Release This product is provided subject to this Notification and this Privacy & Use policy. Please share your thoughts. We recently updated our anonymous product survey ; we'd welcome your feedback. Contact Us (888)282-0870 Send us email Download PGP/GPG keys Submit website feedback Subscribe to Alerts Receive security alerts, tips, and other updates. Enter your email address HSIN Report Home Site Map FAQ Contact Us Traffic Light Protocol PCII Accountability Disclaimer Privacy Policy FOIA No Fear Act Accessibility Plain Writing Plug-ins Inspector General The White House USA.gov CISA is part of the Department of Homeland Security