Oracle Java 7 Security Manager Bypass Vulnerability | CISA Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. CISA.gov Services Report Toggle navigation CISA.gov Services Report CertMain Menu Alerts and Tips Resources Industrial Control Systems TLP:WHITE TLP:WHITE National Cyber Awareness System > Alerts > Oracle Java 7 Security Manager Bypass Vulnerability More Alerts Alert (TA12-240A) Oracle Java 7 Security Manager Bypass Vulnerability Original release date: August 27, 2012  | Last revised : January 23, 2013 Systems Affected Any system using Oracle Java 7 (1.7, 1.7.0) including Java Platform Standard Edition 7 (Java SE 7) Java SE Development Kit (JDK 7) Java SE Runtime Environment (JRE 7) OpenJDK 7 and 7u IcedTea 2.3.0 (based on OpenJDK 7) is also affected. Web browsers using the Java 7 plug-in are at high risk. Overview A vulnerability in the way Java 7 restricts the permissions of Java applets could allow an attacker to execute arbitrary commands on a vulnerable system. Description A vulnerability in the Java Security Manager allows a Java applet to grant itself permission to execute arbitrary code. An attacker could use social engineering techniques to entice a user to visit a link to a website hosting a malicious applet. Any web browser using the Java 7 plug-in is affected. The Java Deployment Toolkit plug-in and Java Web Start can also be used as attack vectors. Reports indicate this vulnerability is being actively exploited, and exploit code is publicly available. Further technical details are available in Vulnerability Note VU#636312 . Impact By convincing a user to load a malicious Java applet or Java Network Launching Protocol (JNLP) file, an attacker could execute arbitrary code on a vulnerable system with the privileges of the Java plug-in process. Solution Update Java This and other vulnerabilities are addressed by Java 7 Update 7 . Please see Oracle Security Alert for CVE-2012-4681 for more information. This vulnerability is addressed in IcedTea 2.3.1 . Reports indicate that other vulnerabilities remain after updating Java to Update 7. Disable the Java plug-in, Java Deployment Toolkit, and Java Web Start functionality To protect against this and future vulnerabilities, consider disabling the Java plug-in, Java Deployment Toolkit, and Java Web Start functionality. There are multiple ways to invoke Java in different web browsers and operating systems, and it can be difficult to completely disable browser support for Java. Check the Solution section of VU#636312 for up-to-date information. Here are instructions for several common web browsers. Take care to disable both the Java and Java Deployment Toolkit plug-ins and, if necessary, disable Java Web Start by breaking JNLP handling. Apple Safari: How to disable the Java web plug-in in Safari , disable "Open 'safe' files after downloading" Mozilla Firefox: How to turn off Java applets Google Chrome: See the "Disable specific plug-ins" section of the Chrome plug-ins documentation. Microsoft Internet Explorer: Disabling Java in Internet Explorer is significantly more complicated than with other browsers. Please see the instructions in VU#636312. Downgrade to Java 6 Consider uninstalling Java 7 and using Java 6. Use NoScript NoScript is a browser extension for Mozilla Firefox browsers that provides options to block Java applets. References Vulnerability Note VU#636312 Oracle Security Alert for CVE-2012-4681 Let&apos;s start the week with a new Java 0-day in Metasploit Zero-Day Season is Not Over Yet http://pastie.org/4594319 Java 7 0-Day vulnerability information and mitigation. The Security Manager How to disable the Java web plug-in in Safari How to turn off Java applets NoScript Vulnerability Summary for CVE-2012-4681 Update Release Notes: Changes in 1.7.0_07 SE-2012-01 Frequently Asked Questions New security issue affecting Java SE 7 Update 7 Securing Your Web Browser Revisions August 27, 2012: Initial release August 28, 2012: Updated September 05, 2012: Updated This product is provided subject to this Notification and this Privacy & Use policy. Please share your thoughts. We recently updated our anonymous product survey ; we'd welcome your feedback. Contact Us (888)282-0870 Send us email Download PGP/GPG keys Submit website feedback Subscribe to Alerts Receive security alerts, tips, and other updates. Enter your email address HSIN Report Home Site Map FAQ Contact Us Traffic Light Protocol PCII Accountability Disclaimer Privacy Policy FOIA No Fear Act Accessibility Plain Writing Plug-ins Inspector General The White House USA.gov CISA is part of the Department of Homeland Security