Exploit Tool Targets Vulnerabilities in McAfee ePolicy Orchestrator (ePO) | CISA Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. CISA.gov Services Report Toggle navigation CISA.gov Services Report CertMain Menu Alerts and Tips Resources Industrial Control Systems TLP:WHITE TLP:WHITE National Cyber Awareness System > Alerts > Exploit Tool Targets Vulnerabilities in McAfee ePolicy Orchestrator (ePO) More Alerts Alert (TA13-193A) Exploit Tool Targets Vulnerabilities in McAfee ePolicy Orchestrator (ePO) Original release date: July 12, 2013  | Last revised : October 07, 2016 Systems Affected McAfee ePolicy Orchestrator (ePO) Overview A new exploit tool targets two vulnerabilities in McAfee’s ePolicy Orchestrator (ePO). Description A new exploit tool specifically built to attack McAfee’s ePolicy Orchestrator (ePO) targets two vulnerabilities found in ePO versions 4.6.5 and earlier. In order to exploit these vulnerabilities the attacker must be on the local network. Impact The tool allows an attacker on the local network to add rogue systems to an enterprise ePO server, steal domain credentials if they are cached within ePO, upload files to the ePO server, and execute commands on the ePO server as well as any systems managed by ePO. Solution Identify Vulnerable ePO Versions To determine whether your instance of ePO is vulnerable, please refer to KB52634 and KB59938 : The ePO 4.x console is accessible only via a web interface and the Patch version (build number) will always be displayed in the Windows Internet Explorer title bar, including the first page where a user will log on to the ePO 4.x console. For ePO 4.5 Patch 6, the Internet Explorer title will display the following information: ePolicy Orchestrator 4.5.6 (Build: 137) -  Microsoft Internet Explorer For ePO 4.6 Patch 5, the Internet Explorer title will display the following information: ePolicy Orchestrator 4.6.5 (Build: 168) -  Microsoft Internet Explorer Update ePO This tool poses a significant risk to enterprises that use ePO and the following mitigation steps are strongly advised. Upgrade ePO to one of the following versions: ePO 5.0, released March 25, 2013; ePO 4.5.7, released on May 23, 2013; or ePO 4.6.6, released on March 26, 2013. Restrict Access to ePO Additionally, US-CERT recommends that administrators use dedicated remote administration consoles and set strict access controls that only allow specified systems to connect to the ePO server, reducing the potential attack surface. References Vulnerability Summary for CVE-2013-0141 Vulnerability Summary for CVE-2013-0140 McAfee Security Bulletin - ePO update fixes two vulnerabilities reported by Ver… Vulnerability Note VU#209131 Revisions July 12, 2013: Initial Release This product is provided subject to this Notification and this Privacy & Use policy. Please share your thoughts. We recently updated our anonymous product survey ; we'd welcome your feedback. Contact Us (888)282-0870 Send us email Download PGP/GPG keys Submit website feedback Subscribe to Alerts Receive security alerts, tips, and other updates. Enter your email address HSIN Report Home Site Map FAQ Contact Us Traffic Light Protocol PCII Accountability Disclaimer Privacy Policy FOIA No Fear Act Accessibility Plain Writing Plug-ins Inspector General The White House USA.gov CISA is part of the Department of Homeland Security