HTTP Parsing Vulnerabilities in Check Point Firewall-1 | CISA Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. CISA.gov Services Report Toggle navigation CISA.gov Services Report CertMain Menu Alerts and Tips Resources Industrial Control Systems TLP:WHITE TLP:WHITE National Cyber Awareness System > Archives Alerts > HTTP Parsing Vulnerabilities in Check Point Firewall-1 This document is part of the US-CERT website archive. These documents are no longer updated and may contain outdated information. Links may also no longer function. Please contact info@us-cert.gov if you have any questions about the US-CERT website archive. More Alerts Alert (TA04-036A) HTTP Parsing Vulnerabilities in Check Point Firewall-1 Original release date: February 05, 2004  | Last revised : February 06, 2004 Systems Affected Check Point Firewall-1 NG FCS Check Point Firewall-1 NG FP1 Check Point Firewall-1 NG FP2 Check Point Firewall-1 NG FP3, HF2 Check Point Firewall-1 NG with Application Intelligence R54 Check Point Firewall-1 NG with Application Intelligence R55 Overview Several versions of Check Point Firewall-1 contain a vulnerability that
allows remote attackers to execute arbitrary code with administrative
privileges.  This allows the attacker to take control of the firewall and
the server it runs on. Description The Application Intelligence (AI) component of Check Point Firewall-1
is an application proxy that scans traffic for application layer attacks
once it has passed through the firewall at the network level.  Earlier
versions of Firewall-1 include the HTTP Security Server, which provides
similar functionality. Both the AI and HTTP Security Server features contain an HTTP parsing
vulnerability that is triggered by sending an invalid HTTP request through
the firewall.  When Firewall-1 generates an error message in response to
the invalid request, a portion of the input supplied by the attacker is
included in the format string for a call to sprintf(). Researchers at Internet Security
Systems have determined that it is possible to exploit this format
string vulnerability to execute commands on the firewall.  The researchers
have also determined that this vulnerability can be exploited as a heap
overflow, which would allow an attacker to execute arbitrary code.  In
either case, the commands or code executed by the attacker would run with
administrative privileges, typically "SYSTEM" or "root".  For more
information, please see the ISS advisory at: http://xforce.iss.net/xforce/alerts/id/162 The CERT/CC is tracking this issue as VU#790771 .  This
reference number corresponds to CVE candidate CAN-2004-0039 . Impact This vulnerability allows remote attackers to execute arbitrary code on
affected firewalls with administrative privileges, typically "SYSTEM" or
"root". Solution Apply the patch from Check Point Check Point has published a "Firewall-1 HTTP Security Server Update"
that modifies the error return strings used when an invalid HTTP request
is detected.  For more information, please see the Check Point bulletin
at: http://www.checkpoint.com/techsupport/alerts/security_server.html Disable the affected components Check Point has reported that their products are only affected by this
vulnerability if the HTTP Security Servers feature is enabled.  Therefore,
affected sites may be able to limit their exposure to this vulnerability
by disabling HTTP Security Servers or the Application Intelligence
component, as appropriate. This vulnerability was discovered and researched by Mark Dowd of ISS
X-Force. This document was written by Jeffrey
P. Lanza . This document is available from http://www.us-cert.gov/cas/techalerts/TA04-036A.html Revision History 02/05/2004:  Initial release 02/06/2004:  Updated Solution section 02/06/2004:  Updated Overview and Impact sections Last updated This product is provided subject to this Notification and this Privacy & Use policy. Please share your thoughts. We recently updated our anonymous product survey ; we'd welcome your feedback. Contact Us (888)282-0870 Send us email Download PGP/GPG keys Submit website feedback Subscribe to Alerts Receive security alerts, tips, and other updates. Enter your email address HSIN Report Home Site Map FAQ Contact Us Traffic Light Protocol PCII Accountability Disclaimer Privacy Policy FOIA No Fear Act Accessibility Plain Writing Plug-ins Inspector General The White House USA.gov CISA is part of the Department of Homeland Security