Apple Mac OS X is affected by multiple vulnerabilities | CISA Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. CISA.gov Services Report Toggle navigation CISA.gov Services Report CertMain Menu Alerts and Tips Resources Industrial Control Systems TLP:WHITE TLP:WHITE National Cyber Awareness System > Archives Alerts > Apple Mac OS X is affected by multiple vulnerabilities This document is part of the US-CERT website archive. These documents are no longer updated and may contain outdated information. Links may also no longer function. Please contact info@us-cert.gov if you have any questions about the US-CERT website archive. More Alerts Alert (SA05-136A) Apple Mac OS X is affected by multiple vulnerabilities Original release date: May 16, 2005  | Last revised : August 17, 2005 Systems Affected Mac OS X version 10.3.9 (Panther) and Mac OS X Server version 10.3.9 Overview Apple has released Security Update 2005-005 to correct several vulnerabilities affecting Mac OS X. These vulnerabilities have a wide range of impacts, the most severe of which could allow an attacker to gain access to your system. Solution Install an Update Install the update located at Apple Security Update 2005-005 . Description The Mac OS X version 10.3.9 system has multiple  vulnerabilities that could allow an attacker to run malicious programs on your computer. Installing the update from Apple will correct these vulnerabilities. For more technical information, see US-CERT
Technical Alert TA05-136A . References Apple Security Update 2005-005 - < http://docs.info.apple.com/article.html?artnum=301528 > US-CERT Technical Cyber Security Alert TA05-136A - < http://www.us-cert.gov/cas/techalerts/TA05-136A.html > Author: Amanda Parente. . Copyright 2005 Carnegie Mellon University. Terms of use Revision History May 16, 2005:  Initial release August 17, 2005:  Fixed spelling errors, updated feedback link Last updated This product is provided subject to this Notification and this Privacy & Use policy. Please share your thoughts. We recently updated our anonymous product survey ; we'd welcome your feedback. Contact Us (888)282-0870 Send us email Download PGP/GPG keys Submit website feedback Subscribe to Alerts Receive security alerts, tips, and other updates. Enter your email address HSIN Report Home Site Map FAQ Contact Us Traffic Light Protocol PCII Accountability Disclaimer Privacy Policy FOIA No Fear Act Accessibility Plain Writing Plug-ins Inspector General The White House USA.gov CISA is part of the Department of Homeland Security