Mozilla Updates for Multiple Vulnerabilities | CISA Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. CISA.gov Services Report Toggle navigation CISA.gov Services Report CertMain Menu Alerts and Tips Resources Industrial Control Systems TLP:WHITE TLP:WHITE National Cyber Awareness System > Alerts > Mozilla Updates for Multiple Vulnerabilities More Alerts Alert (TA08-319A) Mozilla Updates for Multiple Vulnerabilities Original release date: November 14, 2008  | Last revised : October 07, 2016 Systems Affected Systems running Firefox, Thunderbird, or SeaMonkey Overview New versions of Firefox, Thunderbird, and SeaMonkey address several vulnerabilities, the most severe of which could allow a remote attacker to execute arbitrary code on an affected system. Description The Mozilla and the SeaMonkey projects have released new versions of Firefox, Thunderbird and SeaMonkey to address several vulnerabilities. Further details about these vulnerabilities are available in Mozilla Foundation Security Advisories . An attacker could exploit these vulnerabilities by convincing a user to view a specially crafted HTML document, such as a web page or an HTML email message. Impact While the impacts of the individual vulnerabilities vary, the most severe could allow a remote, unauthenticated attacker to execute arbitrary code on a vulnerable system. An attacker may also be able to cause a denial of service or execute cross-site scripting attacks. Solution Upgrade These vulnerabilities are addressed in Mozilla Firefox 3.0.4 , Firefox 2.0.0.18 , Thunderbird 2.0.0.18 , and SeaMonkey 1.1.13 . References Mozilla Foundation Security Advisories Known Vulnerabilities in Mozilla Products Mozilla-Based Applications Securing Your Web Browser NoScript Firefox Extension Revisions November 14, 2008: Initial release This product is provided subject to this Notification and this Privacy & Use policy. Please share your thoughts. We recently updated our anonymous product survey ; we'd welcome your feedback. Contact Us (888)282-0870 Send us email Download PGP/GPG keys Submit website feedback Subscribe to Alerts Receive security alerts, tips, and other updates. Enter your email address HSIN Report Home Site Map FAQ Contact Us Traffic Light Protocol PCII Accountability Disclaimer Privacy Policy FOIA No Fear Act Accessibility Plain Writing Plug-ins Inspector General The White House USA.gov CISA is part of the Department of Homeland Security