Adobe Flash and AIR Vulnerabilities | CISA Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. CISA.gov Services Report Toggle navigation CISA.gov Services Report CertMain Menu Alerts and Tips Resources Industrial Control Systems TLP:WHITE TLP:WHITE National Cyber Awareness System > Alerts > Adobe Flash and AIR Vulnerabilities More Alerts Alert (TA10-223A) Adobe Flash and AIR Vulnerabilities Original release date: August 11, 2010  | Last revised : January 24, 2013 Systems Affected Adobe Flash Player 10.1.53.64 and earlier 10.x versions Adobe Flash Player 9.0.277.0 and earlier 9.x versions Adobe AIR 2.0.2.12610 and earlier versions Adobe Reader 9.3.3 and earlier 9.x versions Other Adobe products that support Flash may also be vulnerable. Overview According to Adobe Security Bulletin APSB10-16 , there are vulnerabilities in Adobe Flash and AIR. These vulnerabilities affect Flash Player, AIR, and possibly other products that support Flash. A remote attacker could exploit these vulnerabilities to execute arbitrary code. Description Adobe Security Bulletin APSB10-16 describes vulnerabilities in Adobe Flash that affect Flash Player and AIR. These vulnerabilities may also affect other products that independently support Flash, such as Adobe Reader, Acrobat, Photoshop, Photoshop Lightroom, Freehand MX, and Fireworks. An attacker could exploit these vulnerabilities by convincing a user to open specially crafted Flash content. Flash content is commonly hosted on a web page, but it can also be embedded in a PDF and other documents or provided as a stand-alone file. Impact If a user opens specially crafted Flash content, a remote attacker may be able to execute arbitrary code. Solution Update Flash and AIR Adobe Security Bulletin APSB10-16 recommends updating to Flash Player 10.1.82.76 or 9.0.280 and to AIR 2.0.3. This will update the Flash web browser plug-in and ActiveX control, as well as AIR. However, it will not update Flash support in Adobe Reader, Acrobat, or other products. To reduce your exposure to these and other Flash vulnerabilities, consider the following mitigation technique. Disable Flash in your web browser Uninstall Flash or restrict which sites are allowed to run Flash. To the extent possible, only run trusted Flash content on trusted domains. For more information, see Securing Your Web Browser . Additional workarounds are available in US-CERT Vulnerability Note VU#660993 . References Adobe Security Bulletin APSB10-16 US-CERT Vulnerability Report VU#660993 Securing Your Web Browser Revisions August 11, 2010: Initial release This product is provided subject to this Notification and this Privacy & Use policy. Please share your thoughts. We recently updated our anonymous product survey ; we'd welcome your feedback. Contact Us (888)282-0870 Send us email Download PGP/GPG keys Submit website feedback Subscribe to Alerts Receive security alerts, tips, and other updates. Enter your email address HSIN Report Home Site Map FAQ Contact Us Traffic Light Protocol PCII Accountability Disclaimer Privacy Policy FOIA No Fear Act Accessibility Plain Writing Plug-ins Inspector General The White House USA.gov CISA is part of the Department of Homeland Security