AAEH | CISA Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. CISA.gov Services Report Toggle navigation CISA.gov Services Report CertMain Menu Alerts and Tips Resources Industrial Control Systems TLP:WHITE TLP:WHITE National Cyber Awareness System > Alerts > AAEH More Alerts Alert (TA15-098A) AAEH Original release date: April 09, 2015  | Last revised : September 30, 2016 Systems Affected Microsoft Windows 95, 98, Me, 2000, XP, Vista, 7, and 8 Microsoft Server 2003, Server 2008, Server 2008 R2, and Server 2012 Overview AAEH is a family of polymorphic downloaders created with the primary purpose of downloading other malware, including password stealers, rootkits, fake antivirus, and ransomware. The United States Department of Homeland Security (DHS), in collaboration with Europol, the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and the Department of Justice (DOJ), released this Technical Alert to provide further information about the AAEH botnet, along with prevention and mitigation recommendations. Description AAEH is often propagated across networks, removable drives (USB/CD/DVD), and through ZIP and RAR archive files. Also known as VObfus, VBObfus, Beebone or Changeup, the polymorphic malware has the ability to change its form with every infection. AAEH is a polymorphic downloader with more than 2 million unique samples. Once installed, it morphs every few hours and rapidly spreads across the network.  AAEH has been used to download other malware families, such as Zeus, Cryptolocker, ZeroAccess, and Cutwail. Impact A system infected with AAEH may be employed to distribute malicious software, harvest users' credentials for online services, including banking services, and extort money from users by encrypting key files and then demanding payment in order to return the files to a readable state. AAEH is capable of defeating anti-virus products by blocking connections to IP addresses associated with Internet security companies and by preventing anti-virus tools from running on infected machines. Solution Users are recommended to take the following actions to remediate AAEH infections: Use and maintain anti-virus software - Anti-virus software recognizes and protects your computer against most known viruses. It is important to keep your anti-virus software up-to-date (see Understanding Anti-Virus Software for more information). Change your passwords - Your original passwords may have been compromised during the infection, so you should change them (see Choosing and Protecting Passwords for more information). Keep your operating system and application software up-to-date - Install software patches so that attackers can't take advantage of known problems or vulnerabilities. Many operating systems offer automatic updates. If this option is available, you should enable it (see Understanding Patches for more information). Use anti-malware tools - Using a legitimate program that identifies and removes malware can help eliminate an infection. Users can consider employing a remediation tool (examples below) that will help with the removal of AAEH from your system. Note: AAEH blocks AV domain names thereby preventing infected users from being able to download remediation tools directly from an AV company. The links below will take you to the tools at the respective AV sites. In the event that the tools cannot be accessed or downloaded from the vendor site, the tools are accessible from Shadowserver ( https://aaeh.shadowserver.org ). F-Secure https://www.f-secure.com/en/web/home_global/online-scanner (Windows Vista, 7 and 8) https://www.f-secure.com/en/web/labs_global/removal-tools/-/carousel/view/142 (Windows XP) McAfee www.mcafee.com/stinger (Windows XP SP2, 2003 SP2, Vista SP1, 2008, 7 and 8) Microsoft https://www.microsoft.com/security/scanner/en-us/default.aspx (Windows 8.1, Windows 8, Windows 7, Windows Vista, and Windows XP) Sophos https://www.sophos.com/VirusRemoval (Windows XP SP2 and above) Trend Micro https://www.trendmicro.com/threatdetector (Windows XP, Windows Vista, Windows 7, Windows 8/8.1, Windows Server 2003, Windows Server 2008, and Windows Server 2008 R2) The above are examples only and do not constitute an exhaustive list. The U.S. Government does not endorse or support any particular product or vendor. References International Police Operation Targets Polymorphic Beebone Botnet Revisions April 9, 2015: Initial Release This product is provided subject to this Notification and this Privacy & Use policy. Please share your thoughts. We recently updated our anonymous product survey ; we'd welcome your feedback. Contact Us (888)282-0870 Send us email Download PGP/GPG keys Submit website feedback Subscribe to Alerts Receive security alerts, tips, and other updates. Enter your email address HSIN Report Home Site Map FAQ Contact Us Traffic Light Protocol PCII Accountability Disclaimer Privacy Policy FOIA No Fear Act Accessibility Plain Writing Plug-ins Inspector General The White House USA.gov CISA is part of the Department of Homeland Security