Security Improvements in Windows XP Service Pack 2 | CISA Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. CISA.gov Services Report Toggle navigation CISA.gov Services Report CertMain Menu Alerts and Tips Resources Industrial Control Systems TLP:WHITE TLP:WHITE National Cyber Awareness System > Archives Alerts > Security Improvements in Windows XP Service Pack 2 This document is part of the US-CERT website archive. These documents are no longer updated and may contain outdated information. Links may also no longer function. Please contact info@us-cert.gov if you have any questions about the US-CERT website archive. More Alerts Alert (SA04-243A) Security Improvements in Windows XP Service Pack 2 Original release date: August 30, 2004  | Last revised : January 10, 2005 Systems Affected Microsoft Windows XP Overview Microsoft Windows XP Service Pack 2 (SP2) significantly improves your computer's defenses against attacks and vulnerabilities. Recommendation To help protect your Windows XP computer from attacks and vulnerabilities, install Service Pack 2 using Windows Update or Automatic Updates . Note: Service Pack 2 makes significant changes to improve the security of Windows XP, and these changes may have negative effects on some programs and Windows functionality.  Before you install Service Pack 2, back up your important data and consult your computer manufacturer's web site for information about Service Pack 2. Description Windows XP Service Pack 2 is a major operating system update that contains a number of new security updates and features.  Like other Microsoft Service Packs, Windows XP Service Pack 2 also includes previously released security fixes and other operating system updates. Following is a summary of the new security updates and features in Service Pack 2: Windows Firewall Windows Firewall is enabled in almost all configurations, blocking network traffic coming into your computer.  Blocking this traffic helps to protect you from worms and other malicious code that spread via the Internet. Internet Explorer Local Machine Zone Lockdown New settings for Internet Explorer disable the execution of ActiveX controls and Active scripting in the Local Machine Zone .  This protects you from attacks and vulnerabilties such as Download.Ject . Additional Internet Explorer Security Changes Internet Explorer now includes a pop-up blocker , additional window restrictions , and changes in MIME type handling that better defend against social engineering and " phishing " attacks.  A browser add-on management interface provides a way to identify and disable programs that run as part of Internet Explorer.  Enhanced protection against security zone elevation and object caching vulnerabilities helps defend against malicious web scripts . Email Handling Technologies Outlook Express now supports the ability to read and compose messages in plain text and to block external HTML content such as "web bugs."  Security checks are now performed in a more consistent way to help prevent the execution of malicious attachments. Security Center The Security Center "...provides a central location for changing security settings, learning more about security, and ensuring that [your] computer is up to date, with the essential security settings that are recommended by Microsoft." Automatic Updates The update services and automatic update feature of Windows XP have been improved.  US-CERT highly recommends that you enable Automatic Updates . Data Execution Prevention Memory protection helps prevent attackers from executing code on your computer. References Windows XP Service Pack 2 - < http://www.microsoft.com/windowsxp/sp2/ > What to Know Before You Download and Install Windows XP Service Pack 2 - < http://www.microsoft.com/windowsxp/sp2/sp2_whattoknow.mspx > Get the Latest Updates and Information from Your PC Manufacturer Before Installing Windows XP Service Pack 2 - < http://www.microsoft.com/windowsxp/sp2/oemlinks.mspx > Backing up your computer files - < http://www.microsoft.com/athome/security/update/backup.mspx > Programs that are known to experience a loss of functionality when they run on a Windows XP Service Pack 2-based computer - < http://support.microsoft.com/?id=884130 > Authors: Art Manion and Mindi McDowell.  Feedback can be directed to the This product is provided subject to this Notification and this Privacy & Use policy. Please share your thoughts. We recently updated our anonymous product survey ; we'd welcome your feedback. Contact Us (888)282-0870 Send us email Download PGP/GPG keys Submit website feedback Subscribe to Alerts Receive security alerts, tips, and other updates. Enter your email address HSIN Report Home Site Map FAQ Contact Us Traffic Light Protocol PCII Accountability Disclaimer Privacy Policy FOIA No Fear Act Accessibility Plain Writing Plug-ins Inspector General The White House USA.gov CISA is part of the Department of Homeland Security