Apple Mac OS X Multiple Vulnerabilities | CISA Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. CISA.gov Services Report Toggle navigation CISA.gov Services Report CertMain Menu Alerts and Tips Resources Industrial Control Systems TLP:WHITE TLP:WHITE National Cyber Awareness System > Archives Alerts > Apple Mac OS X Multiple Vulnerabilities This document is part of the US-CERT website archive. These documents are no longer updated and may contain outdated information. Links may also no longer function. Please contact info@us-cert.gov if you have any questions about the US-CERT website archive. More Alerts Alert (SA05-229A) Apple Mac OS X Multiple Vulnerabilities Original release date: August 17, 2005 Systems Affected Apple Mac OS X version 10.3.9 (Panther) Apple Mac OS X version 10.4.2 (Tiger) Apple Safari web browser Overview Apple has released Security Update 2005-007 to correct several vulnerabilities affecting Mac OS X and the Safari web browser. These vulnerabilities have a wide range of impacts, the most severe of which could allow an attacker to gain access to your computer. Solution Install an Update Use the Mac OS X Software Update feature to download and install the updates.  Consider scheduling Software Update to check for updates automatically (this option is enabled by default). Description Apple Mac OS X has multiple vulnerabilities that could allow an attacker to run malicious programs on your computer. Installing the update from Apple will correct these vulnerabilities. For more technical information, see US-CERT Technical Alert TA05-229A and Apple Security Update 2005-007 . References US-CERT Technical Cyber Security Alert TA05-229A - < http://www.us-cert.gov/cas/techalerts/TA05-229A.html > Apple Security Update 2005-007 - < http://docs.info.apple.com/article.html?artnum=302163 > Mac OS X: Updating your software - < http://docs.info.apple.com/article.html?artnum=106704 > . Produced by US-CERT, a government organization. Terms of use Revision History August 17, 2005:  Initial release Last updated This product is provided subject to this Notification and this Privacy & Use policy. Please share your thoughts. We recently updated our anonymous product survey ; we'd welcome your feedback. Contact Us (888)282-0870 Send us email Download PGP/GPG keys Submit website feedback Subscribe to Alerts Receive security alerts, tips, and other updates. Enter your email address HSIN Report Home Site Map FAQ Contact Us Traffic Light Protocol PCII Accountability Disclaimer Privacy Policy FOIA No Fear Act Accessibility Plain Writing Plug-ins Inspector General The White House USA.gov CISA is part of the Department of Homeland Security