Apple iOS 'Masque Attack' Technique | CISA Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. CISA.gov Services Report Toggle navigation CISA.gov Services Report CertMain Menu Alerts and Tips Resources Industrial Control Systems TLP:WHITE TLP:WHITE National Cyber Awareness System > Alerts > Apple iOS 'Masque Attack' Technique More Alerts Alert (TA14-317A) Apple iOS 'Masque Attack' Technique Original release date: November 13, 2014  | Last revised : September 30, 2016 Systems Affected iOS devices running iOS 7.1.1, 7.1.2, 8.0, 8.1, and 8.1.1 beta. Overview A technique labeled “Masque Attack” allows an attacker to substitute malware for a legitimate iOS app under a limited set of circumstances. Description Masque Attack was described by FireEye mobile security researchers [1] , Stefan Esser of SektionEins, and Jonathan Zdziarski. This attack works by luring users to install an app from a source other than the iOS App Store or their organizations’ provisioning system. In order for the attack to succeed, a user must install an untrusted app, such as one delivered through a phishing link. This technique takes advantage of a security weakness that allows an untrusted app—with the same “bundle identifier” as that of a legitimate app—to replace the legitimate app on an affected device, while keeping all of the user’s data. This vulnerability exists because iOS does not enforce matching certificates for apps with the same bundle identifier. Apple’s own iOS platform apps, such as Mobile Safari, are not vulnerable. Impact An app installed on an iOS device using this technique may: Mimic the original app’s login interface to steal the victim’s login credentials. Access sensitive data from local data caches. Perform background monitoring of the user’s device. Gain root privileges to the iOS device. Be indistinguishable from a genuine app. Solution iOS users can protect themselves from Masque Attacks by following three steps: Don’t install apps from sources other than Apple’s official App Store or your own organization. Don’t click “Install” from a third-party pop-up when viewing a web page. When opening an app, if iOS shows an “Untrusted App Developer” alert, click on “Don’t Trust” and uninstall the app immediately. Further details on Masque Attack and mitigation guidance can be found on FireEye’s blog [1] . US-CERT does not endorse or support any particular product or vendor. References [1] FireEye Revisions November 13, 2014: Initial Release November 17, 2014: Vulnerability attribution amended This product is provided subject to this Notification and this Privacy & Use policy. Please share your thoughts. We recently updated our anonymous product survey ; we'd welcome your feedback. Contact Us (888)282-0870 Send us email Download PGP/GPG keys Submit website feedback Subscribe to Alerts Receive security alerts, tips, and other updates. Enter your email address HSIN Report Home Site Map FAQ Contact Us Traffic Light Protocol PCII Accountability Disclaimer Privacy Policy FOIA No Fear Act Accessibility Plain Writing Plug-ins Inspector General The White House USA.gov CISA is part of the Department of Homeland Security