Adobe Macromedia Flash Products Contain Vulnerabilities | CISA Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. CISA.gov Services Report Toggle navigation CISA.gov Services Report CertMain Menu Alerts and Tips Resources Industrial Control Systems TLP:WHITE TLP:WHITE National Cyber Awareness System > Archives Alerts > Adobe Macromedia Flash Products Contain Vulnerabilities This document is part of the US-CERT website archive. These documents are no longer updated and may contain outdated information. Links may also no longer function. Please contact info@us-cert.gov if you have any questions about the US-CERT website archive. More Alerts Alert (TA06-075A) Adobe Macromedia Flash Products Contain Vulnerabilities Original release date: March 16, 2006 Systems Affected Microsoft Windows, Apple Mac OS X, Linux, Solaris, or other operating systems with any of the following Adobe Macromedia products installed: Flash Player 8.0.22.0 and earlier Flash Professional 8 Flash Basic Flash MX 2004 Flash Debug Player 7.0.14.0 and earlier Flex 1.5 Breeze Meeting Add-In 5.1 and earlier Adobe Macromedia Shockwave Player 10.1.0.11 and earlier For more complete information, refer to Adobe Security Bulletin APSB06-03 . Overview There are critical vulnerabilities
in Macromedia Flash player and related software. Exploitation of these
vulnerabilities could allow a remote, unauthenticated attacker to
execute arbitrary code or cause a denial of service on a vulnerable
system. Description Adobe Security Bulletin APSB06-03 addresses vulnerabilities
in Macromedia Flash Player and related software. Further information is available in the
following US-CERT Vulnerability Note: VU#945060 - 
Adobe Macromedia Flash products contain multiple vulnerabilities Several vulnerabilities in Adobe Macromedia Flash products may allow a remote attacker to execute arbitrary code on a vulnerable system. ( CVE-2006-0024 ) Several operating systems, including Microsoft Windows (see Microsoft Security Advisory 916208 ), have vulnerable versions of Flash installed by default. Systems with Flash-enabled web browsers are vulnerable. An attacker could host a specially crafted Flash file on a web site and convince a user to visit the site. Impact A remote, unauthenticated attacker could execute arbitrary code with
the privileges of the user. If the user is logged on with
administrative privileges, the attacker could take complete control of
an affected system. An attacker may also be able to cause a denial of
service. Solution Apply Updates Adobe has provided the updates for these vulnerabilities in APBS06-03 . Disable Flash Please see Microsoft Security Advisory 916208 for instructions on how to disable Flash on Microsoft Windows.  For other operating systems and web browsers, please contact the appropriate vendor. Appendix A. References Macromedia - APSB06-03: Flash Player Update to Address Security Vulnerabilities - http://www.macromedia.com/devnet/security/security_zone/apsb06-03.html US-CERT Vulnerability Note VU#945060 - http://www.kb.cert.org/vuls/id/945060 CVE-2006-0024 - http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2006-0024 Microsoft Security Advisory (916208) - http://www.microsoft.com/technet/security/advisory/916208.mspx Feedback can be directed to the US-CERT Technical Staff . Revision History March 16, 2006:  Initial release Last updated This product is provided subject to this Notification and this Privacy & Use policy. Please share your thoughts. We recently updated our anonymous product survey ; we'd welcome your feedback. Contact Us (888)282-0870 Send us email Download PGP/GPG keys Submit website feedback Subscribe to Alerts Receive security alerts, tips, and other updates. Enter your email address HSIN Report Home Site Map FAQ Contact Us Traffic Light Protocol PCII Accountability Disclaimer Privacy Policy FOIA No Fear Act Accessibility Plain Writing Plug-ins Inspector General The White House USA.gov CISA is part of the Department of Homeland Security