Adobe Flash Vulnerability Affects Flash Player and Other Adobe Products | CISA Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. CISA.gov Services Report Toggle navigation CISA.gov Services Report CertMain Menu Alerts and Tips Resources Industrial Control Systems TLP:WHITE TLP:WHITE National Cyber Awareness System > Alerts > Adobe Flash Vulnerability Affects Flash Player and Other Adobe Products More Alerts Alert (TA09-204A) Adobe Flash Vulnerability Affects Flash Player and Other Adobe Products Original release date: July 23, 2009  | Last revised : January 24, 2013 Systems Affected Adobe Flash Player 10.0.22.87 and earlier 10.x versions Adobe Flash Player 9.0.159.0 and earlier 9.x versions Adobe Reader and Acrobat 9.1.2 and earlier 9.x versions Overview Adobe has released Security advisory APSA09-03 , which describes a vulnerability affecting Adobe Flash. Other Adobe applications that include the Flash runtime, such as Adobe Reader 9, are also affected. Description Adobe Security Advisory APSA09-03 describes a vulnerability affecting the Adobe Flash player. Flash player version 10.0.22.87 and earlier 10.x versions as well as Flash player version 9.0.159.0 and earlier 9.x versions are affected. An attacker could exploit this vulnerability by convincing a user to visit a website that hosts a specially crafted SWF file. The Adobe Flash browser plugin is available for multiple web browsers and operating systems, any of which could be affected. An attacker could also create a PDF document that has an embedded SWF file to exploit the vulnerability. This vulnerability is being actively exploited. Impact This vulnerability allows a remote attacker to execute arbitrary code as the result of a user viewing a web page or opening a PDF document. Solution These vulnerabilities can be mitigated by disabling the Flash plugin or by using the NoScript extension for Mozilla Firefox or SeaMonkey to whitelist websites that can access the Flash plugin. For more information about securely configuring web browsers, please see the Securing Your Web Browser document. US-CERT Vulnerability Note VU#259425 has additional details, as well as information about mitigating the PDF document attack vector. Thanks to Department of Defense Cyber Crime Center/DCISE for information used in this document. References Vulnerability Note VU#259425 Security advisory for Adobe Reader, Acrobat and Flash Player Securing Your Web Browser NoScript Revisions July 23, 2009: Initial release July 23, 2009: Updated July 23, 2009: Updated This product is provided subject to this Notification and this Privacy & Use policy. Please share your thoughts. We recently updated our anonymous product survey ; we'd welcome your feedback. Contact Us (888)282-0870 Send us email Download PGP/GPG keys Submit website feedback Subscribe to Alerts Receive security alerts, tips, and other updates. Enter your email address HSIN Report Home Site Map FAQ Contact Us Traffic Light Protocol PCII Accountability Disclaimer Privacy Policy FOIA No Fear Act Accessibility Plain Writing Plug-ins Inspector General The White House USA.gov CISA is part of the Department of Homeland Security