Adobe Updates for Multiple Vulnerabilities | CISA Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. CISA.gov Services Report Toggle navigation CISA.gov Services Report CertMain Menu Alerts and Tips Resources Industrial Control Systems TLP:WHITE TLP:WHITE National Cyber Awareness System > Alerts > Adobe Updates for Multiple Vulnerabilities More Alerts Alert (TA11-222A) Adobe Updates for Multiple Vulnerabilities Original release date: August 10, 2011  | Last revised : January 24, 2013 Systems Affected Shockwave Player 11.6.0.626 and earlier versions for Windows and Macintosh Flash Media Server 4.0.2 and earlier versions for Windows and Linux Flash Media Server 3.5.6 and earlier versions for Windows and Linux Adobe Flash Player 10.3.181.36 and earlier versions for Windows, Macintosh, Linux, and Solaris operating systems Adobe Flash Player 10.3.185.25 and earlier versions for Android Adobe AIR 2.7 and earlier versions for Windows, Macintosh, and Android Adobe Photoshop CS5 and CS5.1 and earlier versions for Windows and Macintosh RoboHelp 9 (versions 9.0.1.232 and earlier), RoboHelp 8, RoboHelp Server 9, and RoboHelp Server 8 for Windows Overview There are multiple vulnerabilities in Adobe Shockwave Player, Flash Media Server, Flash Player, Photoshop CS5, and RoboHelp. Adobe has released updates to address these vulnerabilities. Description Adobe security bulletins APSB11-19, APSB11-20, APSB11-21, APSB11-22, and APSB11-23 describe multiple vulnerabilities in Adobe Shockwave Player, Flash Media Server, Flash Player, Photoshop CS5, and RoboHelp. An attacker may use these vulnerabilities to run malicious code or cause a denial of service on an affected system.  Adobe has released updates to address these vulnerabilities. Impact These vulnerabilities could allow an attacker to run malicious code on the affected system or cause a denial of service. Solution Users of these Adobe products should review the relevant Adobe security bulletins and follow the recommendations in the "Solution" section. APSB11-19: Security update available for Adobe Shockwave Player APSB11-20: Security update available for Adobe Flash Media Server APSB11-21: Security update available for Adobe Flash Player APSB11-22: Security update available for Adobe Photoshop CS5 APSB11-23: Security updates available for RoboHelp References Security update available for Adobe Shockwave Player Security update available for Adobe Flash Media Server Security update available for Adobe Flash Player Security update available for Adobe Photoshop CS5 Security updates available for RoboHelp Revisions August 10, 2011: Initial release This product is provided subject to this Notification and this Privacy & Use policy. Please share your thoughts. We recently updated our anonymous product survey ; we'd welcome your feedback. Contact Us (888)282-0870 Send us email Download PGP/GPG keys Submit website feedback Subscribe to Alerts Receive security alerts, tips, and other updates. Enter your email address HSIN Report Home Site Map FAQ Contact Us Traffic Light Protocol PCII Accountability Disclaimer Privacy Policy FOIA No Fear Act Accessibility Plain Writing Plug-ins Inspector General The White House USA.gov CISA is part of the Department of Homeland Security