Risks of Default Passwords on the Internet | CISA Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. CISA.gov Services Report Toggle navigation CISA.gov Services Report CertMain Menu Alerts and Tips Resources Industrial Control Systems TLP:WHITE TLP:WHITE National Cyber Awareness System > Alerts > Risks of Default Passwords on the Internet More Alerts Alert (TA13-175A) Risks of Default Passwords on the Internet Original release date: June 24, 2013  | Last revised : October 07, 2016 Systems Affected Any system using password authentication accessible from the internet may be affected. Critical infrastructure and other important embedded systems, appliances, and devices are of particular concern. Overview Attackers can easily identify and access internet-connected systems that use shared default passwords. It is imperative to change default manufacturer passwords and restrict network access to critical and important systems. Description What Are Default Passwords? Factory default software configurations for embedded systems, devices, and appliances often include simple, publicly documented passwords. These systems usually do not provide a full operating system interface for user management, and the default passwords are typically identical (shared) among all systems from a vendor or within product lines. Default passwords are intended for initial testing, installation, and configuration operations, and many vendors recommend changing the default password before deploying the system in a production environment. What Is the Risk? Attackers can easily obtain default passwords and identify internet-connected target systems. Passwords can be found in product documentation and compiled lists available on the internet. It is possible to identify exposed systems using search engines like Shodan , and it is feasible to scan the entire IPv4 internet, as demonstrated by such research as Shiny Old VxWorks Vulnerabilities Security Flaws in Universal Plug and Play: Unplug, Don't Play Serial Offenders: Widespread Flaws in Serial Port Servers The Wild West Internet Census 2012 Attempting to log in with blank, default, and common passwords is a widely used attack technique. Impact An attacker with knowledge of the password and network access to a system can log in, usually with root or administrative privileges. Further consequences depend on the type and use of the compromised system. Examples of incident activity involving unchanged default passwords include Internet Census 2012 Carna Botnet distributed scanning Fake Emergency Alert System (EAS) warnings about zombies Stuxnet and Siemens SIMATIC WinCC software Kaiten malware and older versions of Microsoft SQL Server SSH access to jailbroken Apple iPhones Cisco router default Telnet and enable passwords SNMP community strings Solution Change Default Passwords Change default passwords as soon as possible and absolutely before deploying the system on an untrusted network such as the internet. Use a sufficiently strong and unique password. See US-CERT Security Tip ST04-002 and Password Security, Protection, and Management for more information on password security. Use Unique Default Passwords Vendors can design systems that use unique default passwords. Such passwords may be based on some inherent characteristic of the system, like a MAC address, and the password may be physically printed on the system. Use Alternative Authentication Mechanisms When possible, use alternative authentication mechanisms like Kerberos, x.509 certificates, public keys, or multi-factor authentication. Embedded systems may not support these authentication mechanisms and the associated infrastructure. Force Default Password Changes Vendors can design systems to require password changes the first time a default password is used. Recent versions of DD-WRT wireless router firmware operate this way. Restrict Network Access Restrict network access to trusted hosts and networks. Only allow internet access to required network services, and unless absolutely necessary, do not deploy systems that can be directly accessed from the internet. If remote access is required, consider using VPN, SSH, or other secure access methods and be sure to change default passwords. Vendors can design systems to only allow default or recovery password use on local interfaces, such as a serial console, or when the system is in maintenance mode and only accessible from a local network. Identify Affected Products It is important to identify software and systems that are likely to use default passwords. The following list includes software, systems, and services that commonly use default passwords: Routers, access points, switches, firewalls, and other network equipment Databases Web applications Industrial Control Systems (ICS) systems Other embedded systems and devices Remote terminal interfaces like Telnet and SSH Administrative web interfaces Running a vulnerability scanner on your network can identify systems and services using default passwords. Freely available scanners include Metasploit and OpenVAS. References Home Network Security Choosing and Protecting Passwords Password Security, Protection, and Management Small Office/Home Office Router Security The Risk of Default Passwords SHODAN - Computer Search Engine Shiny Old VxWorks Vulnerabilities Security Flaws in Universal Plug and Play: Unplug, Don't Play Serial Offenders: Widespread Flaws in Serial Port Servers The Wild West Internet Census 2012 Zombie hack blamed on easy passwords Secure EAS Codec s Prevent Zombie Attacks SCADA System's Hard-Coded Password Circulated Online for Years After Worm, Siemens Says Don't Change Passwords "Kaiten" Malicious Code Installed by Exploiting Null Default Passwords in Micro… Web Interface - DD-WRT Wiki Penetration Testing Software | Metasploit Open Vulnerability Assessment System Revisions Initial release This product is provided subject to this Notification and this Privacy & Use policy. Please share your thoughts. We recently updated our anonymous product survey ; we'd welcome your feedback. Contact Us (888)282-0870 Send us email Download PGP/GPG keys Submit website feedback Subscribe to Alerts Receive security alerts, tips, and other updates. Enter your email address HSIN Report Home Site Map FAQ Contact Us Traffic Light Protocol PCII Accountability Disclaimer Privacy Policy FOIA No Fear Act Accessibility Plain Writing Plug-ins Inspector General The White House USA.gov CISA is part of the Department of Homeland Security