Targeted Trojan Email Attacks | CISA Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. CISA.gov Services Report Toggle navigation CISA.gov Services Report CertMain Menu Alerts and Tips Resources Industrial Control Systems TLP:WHITE TLP:WHITE National Cyber Awareness System > Archives Alerts > Targeted Trojan Email Attacks This document is part of the US-CERT website archive. These documents are no longer updated and may contain outdated information. Links may also no longer function. Please contact info@us-cert.gov if you have any questions about the US-CERT website archive. More Alerts Alert (TA05-189A) Targeted Trojan Email Attacks Original release date: July 08, 2005 Systems Affected /W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd"> US-CERT Alert TA05-189A - Targeted Trojan Email Attacks View Previous Alerts Alert (TA05-189A) Targeted Trojan Email Attacks Original Release date: July 08, 2005 | Last revised: -- Print Document Tweet Like Me Share Overview The United States Computer Emergency Readiness Team (US-CERT) has
received reports of an email based technique for spreading trojan
horse programs.  A trojan horse is an attack method by which malicious
or harmful code is contained inside apparently harmless files.  Once
opened, the malicious code can collect unauthorized information that
can be exploited for various purposes, or permit computers to be used
surreptitiously for other malicious activity.  The emails are sent to
specific individuals rather than the random distributions associated
with a phishing attack or other trojan activity. (Phishing is the act
of sending an email to a user falsely claiming to be an established
legitimate enterprise in an attempt to scam the user into surrendering
private information that can be used for identity theft.) These
attacks appear to target US information for exfiltration. This alert
seeks to raise awareness of this kind of attack, highlight the
important need for government and critical infrastructure systems
owners and operators to take appropriate measures to protect their
data, and provide guidance on proper protective measures. Description There are two distinct elements that make this attack technique
significant.  First, the trojans can elude conventional protective
measures such as anti-virus software and firewalls, both key measures
in protecting the US Critical Infrastructure networks. A number of
open source and tailored trojans, altered to avoid anti-virus
detection, have been used. Trojan capabilities suggest that
exfiltration of data is a fundamental goal. Second, the emails are
sent to specific or targeted recipients.  Unlike "phishing" attacks,
the emails use social engineering to appear credible, with subject
lines often referring to work or other subjects that the recipient
would find relevant.  The emails containing the trojanized
attachments, or links to websites hosting trojanized files are
spoofed, making it appear to come from a colleague or reliable
party. The email attachments exploit known vulnerabilities to install
a trojan on the user's computer.  When opened, the file or link
installs the trojan. Trojans can be configured to transmit information
to a remote attacker using ports assigned to a common service
(e.g., TCP port 80, which is assigned to Web traffic) and thereby
defeat firewalls.  Once the trojanized attachment is opened, a remote
attacker can then perform the following functions: Collection of usernames and
     passwords for email accounts Collection of critical system
     information and scanning of network drives Use of infected machine to
     compromise other machines and networks Downloading of further programs
     (e.g., worms, more advanced trojans) Uploading of documents and data
     to a remote computer US-CERT is working with other computer emergency response teams
worldwide to address these types of attacks. Suggested Actions Due to the targeted distribution of trojans spread in this way and the
possibility of communication with remote attackers using ports
assigned to common services, detection of this activity is
problematic. US-CERT advises that system administrators take the
following actions: Educate users to use an anti-virus scanner on all email attachments. Maintain and update anti-virus software and signatures to detect
malware that may be associated with this attack. Block executable and/or suspect attachment types at email gateway
or block the download of executable content via HTTP. Investigate anomalous slow-running machines, looking for unknown
processes or unexpected Internet connections, as this may be an
indication of malicious programs operating in the
background. Encourage reporting and full investigation of such
behavior. Update operating system and application software to patch
vulnerabilities exploited in the past by these Trojans. Implement spam filtering to guard against infrastructures
(e.g., dial-ups, open proxies and open relays) commonly used by the
attackers. As Microsoft Office vulnerabilities have been targeted and
exploited, ensure that Microsoft security bulletins are followed. Microsoft Security Bulletins Search http://www.microsoft.com/technet/security/current.aspx Turn off 'Preview Pane'
     functionality in email clients and set the default options to view opened
     emails as plain text Examine firewall logs of
     critical systems, or networks used for processing sensitive information,
     for connections to or from anomalous IP addresses. Consider traffic analysis to identify any compromised computers
     that are exfiltrating files.  Data on the size and times of HTTP
     transactions or TCP port 80 flows may help detect exfiltration by
     highlighting connections where the data volume sent is far
     greater than that received from the remote server or when data is
     being sent at times outside of normal working hours. Analyze log files to determine
     whether the attackers are spoofing your domain. Consider implementing IP
     address lists of outbound Internet connections, denying access except from
     address ranges relevant to your business activities, such as a "default
     deny" policy. This provides some protection against computers in third
     countries being used by attackers to control trojans. Incidents or suspected malicious activity of this nature, as well as
all cyber security incidents affecting the US Critical Infrastructure
should be reported to the United States Computer Emergency Readiness
Team (US-CERT) via email to soc@us-cert.gov or by
telephone (703) 235-5110. Vendor Product Names The following anti-virus product names are
associated with known trojans used in the attacks since January 2005. McAfee www.mcafee.com Backdoor-BCB BackDoor-CPY!chm Backdoor-TW Downloader-WY Exploit-1Table JS/BackDoor-CPY MultiDropper-MR Proxy-Sysgam Pusno StartPage-DH.dll Sophos www.sophos.com Troj/Agent-BX Troj/Agent-T Troj/DDrop-A Troj/Dloader-KF Troj/Dloader-KZ Troj/Lecna-C Troj/Nethief-M Troj/Nethief-N Troj/Nethief-O Troj/Netter-A Troj/Riler-E Troj/Riler-F Troj/Riler-J Troj/RPE-A Troj/Sharp-F Troj/VBDrop-A WM97/Loof-D Symantec www.symantec.com Trojan.Dropper Trojan.Mdropper.B Trojan.Riler.C Trend Micro www.trendmicro.com BKDR_NETHIEF.L BKDR_NETHIEF.R BKDR_NETHIEF.S BKDR_TUIMER.A TROJ_AGENT.KZ TROJ_SHARP.C TROJ_WINBLUE.A W2KM_PASSPRO.A W2KM_PASSPRO.C W2KM_PASSPRO.E Feedback can be directed to US-CERT Produced by US-CERT, a government organization. Terms of use Revision History July 08, 2005:  Initial release Last updated This product is provided subject to this Notification and this Privacy & Use policy. Please share your thoughts. We recently updated our anonymous product survey ; we'd welcome your feedback. Contact Us (888)282-0870 Send us email Download PGP/GPG keys Submit website feedback Subscribe to Alerts Receive security alerts, tips, and other updates. Enter your email address HSIN Report Home Site Map FAQ Contact Us Traffic Light Protocol PCII Accountability Disclaimer Privacy Policy FOIA No Fear Act Accessibility Plain Writing Plug-ins Inspector General The White House USA.gov CISA is part of the Department of Homeland Security