Buffer Overflow in Microsoft Internet Explorer | CISA Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. CISA.gov Services Report Toggle navigation CISA.gov Services Report CertMain Menu Alerts and Tips Resources Industrial Control Systems TLP:WHITE TLP:WHITE National Cyber Awareness System > Archives Alerts > Buffer Overflow in Microsoft Internet Explorer This document is part of the US-CERT website archive. These documents are no longer updated and may contain outdated information. Links may also no longer function. Please contact info@us-cert.gov if you have any questions about the US-CERT website archive. More Alerts Alert (TA04-315A) Buffer Overflow in Microsoft Internet Explorer Original release date: November 10, 2004  | Last revised : December 03, 2004 Systems Affected Microsoft Windows systems running Internet Explorer versions 6 and later Other programs that host the WebBrowser 
ActiveX control Overview Microsoft Internet Explorer (IE) contains a buffer overflow vulnerability 
that could allow a remote attacker to 
execute arbitrary code with the privileges of the user running IE. Description A buffer overflow vulnerability exists in the way IE handles the SRC 
and NAME attributes of various elements, including FRAME and IFRAME. 
 Because IE fails to properly check the size of the NAME and SRC 
attributes, 
a specially crafted HTML document can cause a buffer overflow in heap 
memory.  Due to the dynamic nature of the heap, it is usually difficult for 
attackers to execute arbitrary code using this type of vulnerability. However, if heap memory is prepared in a special manner, an attacker could 
execute arbitrary code more easily.  Publicly observed exploits 
use scripting to prepare the heap, though this may be accomplished without 
scripting.  Without the ability to prepare the heap, the impact is most 
likely limited to denial of service. Based on limited testing and information from Microsoft, IE 5, IE 6 on Windows XP SP2, and IE 6 on Windows Server 2003 are not vulnerable. This vulnerability is described in further detail in VU#842160 . Impact By convincing a user to view a specially crafted HTML document (e.g., a web 
page or an HTML email message), an attacker could execute arbitrary code 
with the privileges of the user. The attacker could also cause IE (or any 
program that hosts the WebBrowser ActiveX control) to crash. Reports indicate that this vulnerability is being exploited by malicious 
code propagated via email.  When a user clicks on a URL in a 
malicious email message, IE opens and displays an HTML document 
that exploits the vulnerability.  This malicious code may be referred to 
as 
MyDoom.{AG,AH,AI} or Bofra. Solution Install an update Install the appropriate update according to
Microsoft
Security Bulletin MS04-040 .
For additional information about the update, including possible adverse 
effects, please see Microsoft Knowledge Base articles 889293 and 889669 . Install Windows XP SP2 Microsoft Windows XP
SP2 is not affected by this vulnerability.  Windows
XP users should consider updating to SP2. Disable Active scripting To help protect against attacks that use scripting to prepare the 
heap, 
disable Active scripting in any zone used to render untrusted 
HTML content (typically the Internet Zone and Restricted Sites Zone).  
Instructions for disabling Active scripting in the 
Internet Zone can be found in the Malicious Web 
Scripts FAQ . Do not follow unsolicited links Do not click on unsolicited URLs received in email, instant messages, web 
forums, or Internet relay chat (IRC) channels. While this is generally good 
security practice, following this behavior will not prevent exploitation of this 
vulnerability in all cases.  For example, a trusted web site could be compromised 
and modified to deliver exploit script to unsuspecting clients. Read and send email in plain text format Outlook 2003, Outlook 2002 SP1, and Outlook 6 SP1 can be configured to view 
email messages in text format. Consider the security of fellow Internet 
users and send email in plain text format when possible. Note that reading 
and sending email in plain text will not necessarily prevent exploitation 
of this vulnerability. Maintain updated anti-virus software Anti-virus software with updated virus definitions may identify and prevent 
some exploit attempts. Variations of exploits or attack vectors may not be 
detected. Do not rely solely on anti-virus software to defend against this 
vulnerability.  More information about viruses and anti-virus vendors is 
available on the US-CERT Computer Virus Resources page . Appendix A. References Microsoft Security Bulletin MS04-040 - http://www.microsoft.com/technet/security/bulletin/ms04-040.mspx MS04-040: Cumulative Security Update for Internet Explorer (IE 6.0 
SP1) - http://support.microsoft.com/kb/889293 An update rollup is available for Internet Explorer 6 SP1 - http://support.microsoft.com/kb/889669 US-CERT Technical Cyber Security Alert TA04-336A - http://www.us-cert.gov/cas/techalerts/TA04-336A.html Vulnerability Note VU#842160 - http://www.kb.cert.org/vuls/id/842160 Security Improvements in Windows XP Service Pack 2 - http://www.us-cert.gov/cas/alerts/SA04-243A.html Malicious Web Scripts FAQ - http://www.cert.org/tech_tips/malicious_code_FAQ.html US-CERT Computer Virus Resources Page - http://www.us-cert.gov/reading_room/virus.html About the Browser (Internet Explorer - WebBrowser) - http://msdn.microsoft.com/workshop/browser/overview/Overview.asp Feedback can be directed to the authors: Will 
Dormann and Art Manion . Revision History November 10, 2004:  Initial release November 11, 2004:  Added status information about IE versions, minor 
changes to Windows XP SP2 workaround and SP2 reference December 3, 2004:  Removed EMBED from list of affected elements, updated systems affected, revised SP2 information, added MS04-040 and KB articles to solution Last updated This product is provided subject to this Notification and this Privacy & Use policy. Please share your thoughts. We recently updated our anonymous product survey ; we'd welcome your feedback. Contact Us (888)282-0870 Send us email Download PGP/GPG keys Submit website feedback Subscribe to Alerts Receive security alerts, tips, and other updates. Enter your email address HSIN Report Home Site Map FAQ Contact Us Traffic Light Protocol PCII Accountability Disclaimer Privacy Policy FOIA No Fear Act Accessibility Plain Writing Plug-ins Inspector General The White House USA.gov CISA is part of the Department of Homeland Security