VERITAS Backup Exec Uses Hard-Coded Authentication Credentials | CISA Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. CISA.gov Services Report Toggle navigation CISA.gov Services Report CertMain Menu Alerts and Tips Resources Industrial Control Systems TLP:WHITE TLP:WHITE National Cyber Awareness System > Archives Alerts > VERITAS Backup Exec Uses Hard-Coded Authentication Credentials This document is part of the US-CERT website archive. These documents are no longer updated and may contain outdated information. Links may also no longer function. Please contact info@us-cert.gov if you have any questions about the US-CERT website archive. More Alerts Alert (TA05-224A) VERITAS Backup Exec Uses Hard-Coded Authentication Credentials Original release date: August 12, 2005  | Last revised : August 15, 2005 Systems Affected VERITAS Backup Exec for Windows Servers VERITAS Backup Exec Remote Agent for Windows Servers VERITAS Backup Exec Remote Agent for Unix or Linux Servers VERITAS Backup Exec for NetWare Servers VERITAS Backup Exec Remote Agent for NetWare Servers VERITAS NetBackup for NetWare Media Server Option Please see SYM05-011 for further information. Overview VERITAS Backup Exec and NetBackup components use hard-coded administrative authentication credentials. An attacker with knowledge of these credentials and access to an affected component could retrieve arbitrary files from a vulnerable system. Description VERITAS Backup Exec and NetBackup are network backup and recovery products that support a variety of operating systems.  Components of Backup Exec and NetBackup, including Backup Exec Remote Agents, support the Network Data Management Protocol (NDMP). NDMP "...is an open standard protocol for enterprise-wide backup of heterogeneous network-attached storage."  By default, Remote Agents listen for NDMP traffic on port 10000/tcp.  Other components that do not support NDMP may also listen on 10000/tcp. VERITAS components including Backup Exec, NetBackup, and Remote Agents use hard-coded administrative authentication credentials.  An attacker with knowledge of these credentials and access to an affected component may be able to retrieve arbitrary files from a vulnerable system.  Most of these components run with elevated privileges.  For example, Remote Agents for Windows run with SYSTEM privileges. Exploit code containing the hard-coded credentials is publicly available.  US-CERT has monitored reports of increased scanning activity on port 10000/tcp.  This increase may be caused by attempts to locate vulnerable systems. US-CERT is tracking this vulnerability as VU#378957 . Please note that VERITAS has recently merged with Symantec. Impact A remote attacker with knowledge of the hard-coded credentials and access to a Remote Agent or other affected component may be able to retrieve arbitrary files from a vulnerable system. Solution Apply Updates Symantec has provided updates for this vulnerability in SYM05-011 . Restrict Network Access Consider the following actions to mitigate risks associated with this and other vulnerabilities that require access to port 10000/tcp: Use firewalls to limit connectivity so that only authorized backup servers can connect to Remote Agents or other listening components.  The default port for these services is 10000/tcp.  Consider blocking access at network perimeters and using host-based firewalls to limit access to authorized servers. Changing the default port from 10000/tcp may reduce the chances of exploitation, particularly by automated attacks.  Please refer to VERITAS documentation on how to change the default listening port. For more information, please see US-CERT Vulnerability Note VU#378957 . Appendix A. References US-CERT Vulnerability Note VU#378957 - http://www.kb.cert.org/vuls/id/378957 VERITAS Backup Exec for Windows Servers, VERITAS Backup Exec for NetWare Servers, and NetBackup for NetWare Media Server Option Remote Agent Authentication Vulnerability (SYM05-011) - http://securityresponse.symantec.com/avcenter/security/Content/2005.08.12b.html VERITAS Backup Exec for Windows Servers Security Advisory: Unauthorized downloading of arbitrary files - http://seer.support.veritas.com/docs/278434.htm VERITAS Backup Exec for NetWare Servers Security Advisory: Unauthorized downloading of arbitrary files - http://seer.support.veritas.com/docs/278431.htm VERITAS NetBackup (tm) for NetWare Media Servers Security Advisory: Unauthorized downloading of arbitrary files - http://seer.support.veritas.com/docs/278430.htm Backup Exec 9.x for Windows Servers has improved support for backups of remote computers. - http://seer.support.veritas.com/docs/255831.htm When using VERITAS Backup Exec (tm) 9.0, during a backup/restore job of a remote computer behind a firewall, the error "Unable to attach to one of the drives" may occur. - http://seer.support.veritas.com/docs/258334.htm How to change the default port used by the Backup Exec 9.x and 10.x Remote Agent for Windows Servers - http://seer.support.veritas.com/docs/255174.htm Backup Exec 9.x and 10.0 fail to install because another application is using port 10000. An Event ID 58116 is found in the system's application log. - http://seer.support.veritas.com/docs/256312.htm What is NDMP? - http://www.ndmp.org/info/faq.shtml#1 Feedback can be directed to US-CERT Technical Staff . Revision History Aug 12, 2005: Initial release Aug 15, 2005: Updates available, more accurate list of affected products Last updated This product is provided subject to this Notification and this Privacy & Use policy. Please share your thoughts. We recently updated our anonymous product survey ; we'd welcome your feedback. Contact Us (888)282-0870 Send us email Download PGP/GPG keys Submit website feedback Subscribe to Alerts Receive security alerts, tips, and other updates. Enter your email address HSIN Report Home Site Map FAQ Contact Us Traffic Light Protocol PCII Accountability Disclaimer Privacy Policy FOIA No Fear Act Accessibility Plain Writing Plug-ins Inspector General The White House USA.gov CISA is part of the Department of Homeland Security