Adobe Flash Player Updates for Multiple Vulnerabilities | CISA Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. CISA.gov Services Report Toggle navigation CISA.gov Services Report CertMain Menu Alerts and Tips Resources Industrial Control Systems TLP:WHITE TLP:WHITE National Cyber Awareness System > Archives Alerts > Adobe Flash Player Updates for Multiple Vulnerabilities This document is part of the US-CERT website archive. These documents are no longer updated and may contain outdated information. Links may also no longer function. Please contact info@us-cert.gov if you have any questions about the US-CERT website archive. More Alerts Alert (TA07-192A) Adobe Flash Player Updates for Multiple Vulnerabilities Original release date: July 11, 2007 Systems Affected Microsoft Windows, Apple Mac OS X, Linux, Solaris, or other operating systems with any of the following Adobe products installed: Flash Player 9.0.45.0 Flash Player 9.0.45.0 and earlier  network distribution Flash Basic Flash CS3 Professional Flash Professional 8, Flash Basic Flex 2.0 Flash Player 7.070.0 for Linux or Solaris For more complete information, refer to Adobe Security Bulletin APSB07-12 . Overview There are critical vulnerabilities in Adobe Flash player and related software. Exploitation of these vulnerabilities could allow a remote, unauthenticated attacker to
execute arbitrary code or cause a denial of service on a vulnerable system. Description Adobe Security Bulletin APSB07-12 addresses vulnerabilities
in Adobe Flash Player and related software. Further information is available in the US-CERT Vulnerability Notes database . Several operating systems, including Microsoft Windows and Apple OS X, have vulnerable versions of Flash installed by default. Systems with Flash-enabled web browsers are vulnerable. To exploit these vulnerabilities, an attacker could host a specially crafted Flash file on a web site and convince a user to visit the site. Impact A remote, unauthenticated attacker could execute arbitrary code with the privileges of the user, steal credentials, or create a denial-of-service condition. If the user is logged on with administrative privileges, the attacker could take complete control of an affected system. Solution Apply Updates Check with your vendor for patches or updates. For information about a specific vendor, please see the Systems Affected section in the vulnerability notes or contact your vendor directly. If you get the flash player from Adobe, see the Adobe Get Flash page for information about updates. Disable Flash Users who are unable to apply the patch should disable Flash. Contact your vendor or see the US-CERT Vulnerability Notes VU#110297 , VU#730785 , or VU#138457 for more details. Appendix A. References Adobe - APSB07-12: Flash Player update available to address security vulnerabilities - http://www.adobe.com/support/security/bulletins/apsb07-12.html US-CERT Vulnerability Notes Database - http://www.kb.cert.org/vuls/byid?searchview&query=VU%23138457,VU%23110297,VU%23730785 Feedback can be directed to the US-CERT . Revision History July 11, 2007:  Initial release Last updated This product is provided subject to this Notification and this Privacy & Use policy. Please share your thoughts. We recently updated our anonymous product survey ; we'd welcome your feedback. Contact Us (888)282-0870 Send us email Download PGP/GPG keys Submit website feedback Subscribe to Alerts Receive security alerts, tips, and other updates. Enter your email address HSIN Report Home Site Map FAQ Contact Us Traffic Light Protocol PCII Accountability Disclaimer Privacy Policy FOIA No Fear Act Accessibility Plain Writing Plug-ins Inspector General The White House USA.gov CISA is part of the Department of Homeland Security