Microsoft Updates for Multiple Vulnerabilities | CISA Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. CISA.gov Services Report Toggle navigation CISA.gov Services Report CertMain Menu Alerts and Tips Resources Industrial Control Systems TLP:WHITE TLP:WHITE National Cyber Awareness System > Alerts > Microsoft Updates for Multiple Vulnerabilities More Alerts Alert (TA10-068A) Microsoft Updates for Multiple Vulnerabilities Original release date: March 09, 2010  | Last revised : January 24, 2013 Systems Affected Microsoft Windows Microsoft Office Overview Microsoft has released updates to address vulnerabilities in Microsoft Windows and Microsoft Office. Description Microsoft has released security bulletins for multiple vulnerabilities in Microsoft Movie Maker, Microsoft Office Producer 2003, and Microsoft Office Excel. These bulletins are described in the Microsoft Security Bulletin Summary for March 2010 . Microsoft notes that affected versions of Microsoft Movie Maker were either included with Microsoft Windows or available as an optional download. Impact A remote, unauthenticated attacker could execute arbitrary code or cause a vulnerable application to crash. Solution Apply updates from Microsoft Microsoft has provided updates for these vulnerabilities in the Microsoft Security Bulletin Summary for March 2010 . The security bulletin describes any known issues related to the updates. Administrators are encouraged to note these issues and test for any potentially adverse effects. Administrators should consider using an automated update distribution system such as Windows Server Update Services (WSUS). Microsoft notes that there is no security update available for Microsoft Producer 2003 at this time of this writing. Users can mitigate the impact to systems with Microsoft Producer 2003 by applying the automated solution to remove the Microsoft Producer file associations using the Fix it found in Microsoft Knowledge Base Article 975561 , and by applying the workarounds in Microsoft Security Bulletin MS10-016 . References Microsoft Security Bulletin Summary for March 2010 Microsoft Windows Server Update Services Microsoft Knowledge Base Article 975561 Microsoft Security Bulletin MS10-016 Revisions March 09, 2010: Initial release This product is provided subject to this Notification and this Privacy & Use policy. Please share your thoughts. We recently updated our anonymous product survey ; we'd welcome your feedback. Contact Us (888)282-0870 Send us email Download PGP/GPG keys Submit website feedback Subscribe to Alerts Receive security alerts, tips, and other updates. Enter your email address HSIN Report Home Site Map FAQ Contact Us Traffic Light Protocol PCII Accountability Disclaimer Privacy Policy FOIA No Fear Act Accessibility Plain Writing Plug-ins Inspector General The White House USA.gov CISA is part of the Department of Homeland Security