Microsoft XML Core Services Attack Activity | CISA Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. CISA.gov Services Report Toggle navigation CISA.gov Services Report CertMain Menu Alerts and Tips Resources Industrial Control Systems TLP:WHITE TLP:WHITE National Cyber Awareness System > Alerts > Microsoft XML Core Services Attack Activity More Alerts Alert (TA12-174A) Microsoft XML Core Services Attack Activity Original release date: June 22, 2012  | Last revised : January 24, 2013 Systems Affected Microsoft XML Core Services 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, and 6.0 are affected. Microsoft Internet Explorer, Microsoft Office 2003, and Microsoft Office 2007 are affected due to their use of XML Core Services. Overview Microsoft Security Advisory ( 2719615 ) warns of active attacks using a vulnerability in Microsoft XML Core Services. Microsoft Internet Explorer and Microsoft Office can be used as attack vectors. Description Microsoft Security Advisory ( 2719615 ), a Google Online Security blog post , Sophos , and other sources report active attacks exploiting a vulnerability in Microsoft XML Core Services ( CVE-2012-1889 ). Attack scenarios involve exploits served by compromised web sites and delivered in Office documents. Reliable public exploit code is available, and attacks may become more widespread. Impact By convincing a victim to view a specially crafted web page or Office document, an attacker could execute arbitrary code and take any action as the victim. Solution As of June 22, 2012, a comprehensive update is not available. Consider the following workarounds. Apply Fix it Apply the Fix it solution described in Microsoft Knowledge Base Article 2719615 . This solution uses the Application Compatibility Database feature to make runtime modifications to XML Core Services to patch the vulnerability. Disable scripting Configure Internet Explorer to disable Active Scripting in the Internet  and Local intranet zones as described in Microsoft Security Advisory ( 2719615 ). See also Securing Your Web Browser . Use the Enhanced Mitigation Experience Toolkit (EMET ) EMET is a utility to configure Windows runtime mitigation features such as Data Execution Prevention (DEP), Address Space Layout Randomization (ASLR), and Structured Exception Handler Overwrite Protection (SEHOP). These features, particularly the combination of system-wide DEP and ASLR, make it more difficult for an attacker to successfully exploit a vulnerability. Configure EMET for Internet Explorer as described in Microsoft Security Advisory ( 2719615 ). References Microsoft Security Advisory (2719615) Microsoft Security Advisory: Vulnerability in Microsoft XML Core Services could… NVD Vulnerability Summary for CVE-2012-1889 Microsoft XML vulnerability under active exploitation European aeronautical supplier&apos;s website infected with Securing Your Web Browser Application Compatibility Database Revisions June 22, 2012: Initial release This product is provided subject to this Notification and this Privacy & Use policy. Please share your thoughts. We recently updated our anonymous product survey ; we'd welcome your feedback. Contact Us (888)282-0870 Send us email Download PGP/GPG keys Submit website feedback Subscribe to Alerts Receive security alerts, tips, and other updates. Enter your email address HSIN Report Home Site Map FAQ Contact Us Traffic Light Protocol PCII Accountability Disclaimer Privacy Policy FOIA No Fear Act Accessibility Plain Writing Plug-ins Inspector General The White House USA.gov CISA is part of the Department of Homeland Security