Oracle Has Released Multiple Updates for Java SE | CISA Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. CISA.gov Services Report Toggle navigation CISA.gov Services Report CertMain Menu Alerts and Tips Resources Industrial Control Systems TLP:WHITE TLP:WHITE National Cyber Awareness System > Alerts > Oracle Has Released Multiple Updates for Java SE More Alerts Alert (TA13-107A) Oracle Has Released Multiple Updates for Java SE Original release date: April 17, 2013  | Last revised : October 19, 2016 Systems Affected JDK and JRE 7 Update 17 and earlier JDK and JRE 6 Update 43 and earlier JDK and JRE 5.0 Update 41 and earlier JavaFX 2.2.7 and earlier Overview Oracle has released a Critical Patch Update (CPU) for Java SE. Oracle strongly recommends that customers apply CPU fixes as soon as possible. Description Oracle Java SE Critical Patch Update Advisory - April 2013 describes the update: A Critical Patch Update is a collection of patches for multiple security vulnerabilities. The Critical Patch Update for Java SE also includes non-security fixes. Critical Patch Updates are cumulative and each advisory describes only the security fixes added since the previous Critical Patch Update and Security Alert. Thus, prior Critical Patch Update and Security Alert advisories should be reviewed for information regarding earlier accumulated security fixes. Systems administrators are advised to pay additional attention to Oracle advisories due to the increasing volume of vulnerabilities being patched with each release. Impact A remote, unauthenticated attacker could execute arbitrary code, cause a denial of service, or gain unauthorized access to your files or system. Solution Apply Updates Oracle Java SE Critical Patch Update Advisory - April 2013 includes the following information: Developers can download the latest release from http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html. Users running Java SE with a browser can download the latest release from http://java.com. Users on the Windows and Mac OS X platforms can also use automatic updates to get the latest release. The latest JavaFX release is included with the latest update of JDK and JRE 7. For JDK and JRE 6 users, the latest Java FX release is available from http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javafx/ References Oracle Java SE Critical Patch Update Advisory - April 2013 Revisions April 17, 2013: Initial release April 18, 2013: Minor update to description This product is provided subject to this Notification and this Privacy & Use policy. Please share your thoughts. We recently updated our anonymous product survey ; we'd welcome your feedback. Contact Us (888)282-0870 Send us email Download PGP/GPG keys Submit website feedback Subscribe to Alerts Receive security alerts, tips, and other updates. Enter your email address HSIN Report Home Site Map FAQ Contact Us Traffic Light Protocol PCII Accountability Disclaimer Privacy Policy FOIA No Fear Act Accessibility Plain Writing Plug-ins Inspector General The White House USA.gov CISA is part of the Department of Homeland Security