Microsoft Windows, Internet Explorer, and Active Template Library (ATL) Vulnerabilities | CISA Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. CISA.gov Services Report Toggle navigation CISA.gov Services Report CertMain Menu Alerts and Tips Resources Industrial Control Systems TLP:WHITE TLP:WHITE National Cyber Awareness System > Alerts > Microsoft Windows, Internet Explorer, and Active Template Library (ATL) Vulnerabilities More Alerts Alert (TA09-209A) Microsoft Windows, Internet Explorer, and Active Template Library (ATL) Vulnerabilities Original release date: July 28, 2009  | Last revised : January 24, 2013 Systems Affected Microsoft Windows and Windows Server Microsoft Internet Explorer Microsoft Visual Studio and C++ Redistributable Package ActiveX controls from multiple vendors Overview Microsoft has released out-of-band updates to address critical vulnerabilities in Microsoft Internet Explorer running on most supported versions of Windows. The updates also help mitigate attacks against ActiveX controls developed with vulnerable versions of the Microsoft Active Template Library (ATL). Description Microsoft has released updates for critical vulnerabilities in Internet Explorer. The updates also include mitigations for attacks against vulnerable ActiveX controls that were created using vulnerable versions of the Active Template Library ( ATL ). Vulnerabilities present in the ATL can cause vulnerabilities in the resulting ActiveX controls and COM components. For example, the ATL typographical error described in this Security Development Lifecycle blog post caused the Microsoft Video ActiveX control stack buffer overflow ( VU#180513 , CVE-2008-0015 ). Any ActiveX control or COM component that was created with a vulnerable version of the ATL may be vulnerable. For example, Adobe and Cisco are affected. Impact By convincing a user to view a specially crafted HTML document (e.g., a Web page, HTML email message, or HTML attachment), an attacker may be able to execute arbitrary code. Solution System Administrators To address the vulnerabilities in Internet Explorer and mitigate attacks against vulnerable ATL-based ActiveX controls, apply the updates described in Microsoft Security Bulletin MS09-034 . Further details about the ATL mitigations are available in a Microsoft Security Research & Defense blog post . Administrators should consider using an automated update distribution system such as Windows Server Update Services ( WSUS ). Developers To stop creating vulnerable controls, update the ATL as described in Microsoft Security Bulletin MS09-035 . To address vulnerabilities in existing controls, recompile the controls using the updated ATL . Further discussion about the ATL vulnerabilities can be found in the Security Development Lifecycle blog . References Vulnerability Note VU#456745 Vulnerability Note VU#180513 Vulnerabilities in Microsoft Active Template Library (ATL) Could Allow Remote C… Microsoft Security Bulletin MS09-34 Microsoft Security Bulletin MS09-35 Protect Your Computer: Active Template Library, Security Updates Microsoft Security Advisory 973882, Microsoft Security Bulletins MS09-034 and M… Black Hat USA Spotlight: ATL Killbit Bypass ATL ATL, MS09-035 and the SDL Internet Explorer Mitigations for ATL Data Stream Vulnerabilities Microsoft Windows Server Update Services Impact of Microsoft ATL vulnerability on Adobe Products Cisco Security Advisory: Active Template Library (ATL) Vulnerability CVE-2008-0015 Revisions July 28, 2009: Initial release This product is provided subject to this Notification and this Privacy & Use policy. Please share your thoughts. We recently updated our anonymous product survey ; we'd welcome your feedback. Contact Us (888)282-0870 Send us email Download PGP/GPG keys Submit website feedback Subscribe to Alerts Receive security alerts, tips, and other updates. Enter your email address HSIN Report Home Site Map FAQ Contact Us Traffic Light Protocol PCII Accountability Disclaimer Privacy Policy FOIA No Fear Act Accessibility Plain Writing Plug-ins Inspector General The White House USA.gov CISA is part of the Department of Homeland Security