Oracle Java Multiple Vulnerabilities | CISA Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. CISA.gov Services Report Toggle navigation CISA.gov Services Report CertMain Menu Alerts and Tips Resources Industrial Control Systems TLP:WHITE TLP:WHITE National Cyber Awareness System > Alerts > Oracle Java Multiple Vulnerabilities More Alerts Alert (TA13-032A) Oracle Java Multiple Vulnerabilities Original release date: February 01, 2013  | Last revised : October 19, 2016 Systems Affected Any system using Oracle Java including JDK and JRE 7 Update 11 and earlier JDK and JRE 6 Update 38 and earlier JDK and JRE 5.0 Update 38 and earlier SDK and JRE 1.4.2_40 and earlier JavaFX 2.2.4 and earlier Java 1.6.0_37 and earlier for Mac OS X and OS X Server 10.6.8 Web browsers using the Java plug-in are at high risk. Overview Multiple vulnerabilities in Java could allow an attacker to execute arbitrary code on a vulnerable system. Description The Oracle Java SE Critical Patch Update Advisory for February 2013 addresses multiple vulnerabilities in the Java Runtime Environment (JRE). Both Java applets delivered via web browsers and stand-alone Java applications are affected, however web browsers using the Java plug-in are at particularly high risk. The Java plug-in, the Java Deployment Toolkit plug-in, and Java Web Start can be used as attack vectors. An attacker could use social engineering techniques to entice a user to visit a link to a website hosting a malicious Java applet. An attacker could also compromise a legitimate web site and upload a malicious Java applet (a "drive-by download" attack). Some vulnerabilities affect stand-alone Java applications, depending on how the Java application functions and how it processes untrusted data. Reports indicate that at least one of these vulnerabilities is being actively exploited. Further technical details are available in Vulnerability Note VU#858729 . Impact By convincing a user to load a malicious Java applet or Java Network Launching Protocol (JNLP) file, an attacker could execute arbitrary code on a vulnerable system with the privileges of the Java plug-in process. Stand-alone java applications may also be affected. Solution Update Java The Oracle Java SE Critical Patch Update Advisory for February 2013 states that Java 7 Update 13 and Java 6 Update 39 address these vulnerabilities. Disable Java in web browsers These and previous Java vulnerabilities have been widely targeted by attackers, and new Java vulnerabilities are likely to be discovered. To defend against this and future Java vulnerabilities, consider disabling Java in web browsers until adequate updates have been installed. As with any software, unnecessary features should be disabled or removed as appropriate for your environment. Starting with Java 7 Update 10, it is possible to disable Java content in web browsers through the Java control panel applet. From Setting the Security Level of the Java Client : For installations where the highest level of security is required, it is possible to entirely prevent any Java apps (signed or unsigned) from running in a browser by de-selecting Enable Java content in the browser in the Java Control Panel under the Security tab. If you are unable to update to Java 7 Update 13 please see the solution section of Vulnerability Note VU#636312 for instructions on how to disable Java on a per-browser basis. Restrict access to Java applets Network administrators unable to disable Java in web browsers may be able to help mitigate these and other Java vulnerabilities by restricting access to Java applets using a web proxy . Most web proxies have features that can be used to block or whitelist requests for .jar and .class files based on network location. Filtering requests that contain a Java User-Agent header may also be effective. For environments where Java is required on the local intranet, the proxy can be configured to allow access to Java applets hosted locally, but block access to Java applets on the internet. References Vulnerability Note VU#858729 Oracle Java SE Critical Patch Update Advisory - February 2013 Setting the Security Level of the Java Client The Security Manager How to disable the Java web plug-in in Safari How to turn off Java applets NoScript Securing Your Web Browser Vulnerability Note VU#636312 http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/7u13-relnotes-1902884.html Do Devs Care About Java (In)Security? (Comment about proxy filtering) About the security content of Java for Mac OS X v10.6 Update 12 Revisions February 01, 2013: Initial release February 05, 2013: Updated affected Java versions This product is provided subject to this Notification and this Privacy & Use policy. Please share your thoughts. We recently updated our anonymous product survey ; we'd welcome your feedback. Contact Us (888)282-0870 Send us email Download PGP/GPG keys Submit website feedback Subscribe to Alerts Receive security alerts, tips, and other updates. Enter your email address HSIN Report Home Site Map FAQ Contact Us Traffic Light Protocol PCII Accountability Disclaimer Privacy Policy FOIA No Fear Act Accessibility Plain Writing Plug-ins Inspector General The White House USA.gov CISA is part of the Department of Homeland Security