Apple QuickTime Updates for Multiple Vulnerabilities | CISA Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. CISA.gov Services Report Toggle navigation CISA.gov Services Report CertMain Menu Alerts and Tips Resources Industrial Control Systems TLP:WHITE TLP:WHITE National Cyber Awareness System > Archives Alerts > Apple QuickTime Updates for Multiple Vulnerabilities This document is part of the US-CERT website archive. These documents are no longer updated and may contain outdated information. Links may also no longer function. Please contact info@us-cert.gov if you have any questions about the US-CERT website archive. More Alerts Alert (TA07-310A) Apple QuickTime Updates for Multiple Vulnerabilities Original release date: November 06, 2007 Systems Affected Vulnerabilities in Apple QuickTime affect Apple Mac OS X Microsoft Windows Overview Apple QuickTime contains multiple vulnerabilities . Exploitation of these vulnerabilities could allow a remote attacker to execute arbitrary code or cause a denial-of-service condition. Description Apple QuickTime 7.3 resolves multiple vulnerabilities in the way different types of image and media files are handled. An attacker could exploit these vulnerabilities by convincing a user to access a specially crafted image or media file that could be hosted on a web page. Note that Apple iTunes installs QuickTime, so any system with iTunes is vulnerable. Impact These vulnerabilities could allow a remote, unauthenticated attacker to execute arbitrary code or commands and cause a denial-of-service condition. For further information, please see About the security content of QuickTime 7.3 . Solution Upgrade QuickTime Upgrade to QuickTime 7.3 . This and other updates for Mac OS X are available via Apple Update . Secure your web browser To help mitigate these and other vulnerabilities that can be exploited via a web browser, refer to Securing Your Web Browser . References About the security content of the QuickTime 7.3  Update - http://docs.info.apple.com/article.html?artnum=306896 How to tell if Software Update for Windows is working correctly when no updates are available - http://docs.info.apple.com/article.html?artnum=304263 Apple - QuickTime - Download - http://www.apple.com/quicktime/download/ Mac OS X: Updating your software - http://docs.info.apple.com/article.html?artnum=106704 Securing Your Web Browser - http://www.us-cert.gov/reading_room/securing_browser/ Revision History November 06, 2007: Initial release This product is provided subject to this Notification and this Privacy & Use policy. Please share your thoughts. We recently updated our anonymous product survey ; we'd welcome your feedback. Contact Us (888)282-0870 Send us email Download PGP/GPG keys Submit website feedback Subscribe to Alerts Receive security alerts, tips, and other updates. Enter your email address HSIN Report Home Site Map FAQ Contact Us Traffic Light Protocol PCII Accountability Disclaimer Privacy Policy FOIA No Fear Act Accessibility Plain Writing Plug-ins Inspector General The White House USA.gov CISA is part of the Department of Homeland Security