Multiple Vulnerabilities in Mozilla Products | CISA Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. CISA.gov Services Report Toggle navigation CISA.gov Services Report CertMain Menu Alerts and Tips Resources Industrial Control Systems TLP:WHITE TLP:WHITE National Cyber Awareness System > Archives Alerts > Multiple Vulnerabilities in Mozilla Products This document is part of the US-CERT website archive. These documents are no longer updated and may contain outdated information. Links may also no longer function. Please contact info@us-cert.gov if you have any questions about the US-CERT website archive. More Alerts Alert (SA04-261A) Multiple Vulnerabilities in Mozilla Products Original release date: September 17, 2004 Systems Affected Mozilla Suite (Mozilla web browser, Mozilla Mail) Firefox web browser Thunderbird email client Overview By taking advantage of one or more vulnerabilities in Mozilla
products, an attacker may be able to take control of your computer. Solution Upgrade to the latest version Mozilla has released updated versions of the affected products. You
can download the latest versions: Mozilla Firefox Thunderbird Description There are vulnerabilities in various features of Mozilla's web
browsers and email clients. Some of the vulnerabilities are connected
to the way the application handles URLs or images. In one instance, an
attacker could cause an application to crash or could take control of
your computer by convincing you to view a malicious web site or email
message. For more technical information, see US-CERT
Technical Alert TA04-261A . References Known Vulnerabilities in Mozilla - < http://www.mozilla.org/projects/security/known-vulnerabilities.html > US-CERT Technical Cyber Security Alert TA04-261A - < http://www.us-cert.gov/cas/techalerts/TA04-261A.html > . Copyright 2004 Carnegie Mellon University. Terms of use Revision History September 17, 2004:  Initial release Last updated This product is provided subject to this Notification and this Privacy & Use policy. Please share your thoughts. We recently updated our anonymous product survey ; we'd welcome your feedback. Contact Us (888)282-0870 Send us email Download PGP/GPG keys Submit website feedback Subscribe to Alerts Receive security alerts, tips, and other updates. Enter your email address HSIN Report Home Site Map FAQ Contact Us Traffic Light Protocol PCII Accountability Disclaimer Privacy Policy FOIA No Fear Act Accessibility Plain Writing Plug-ins Inspector General The White House USA.gov CISA is part of the Department of Homeland Security