Adobe Acrobat and Reader Vulnerability | CISA Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. CISA.gov Services Report Toggle navigation CISA.gov Services Report CertMain Menu Alerts and Tips Resources Industrial Control Systems TLP:WHITE TLP:WHITE National Cyber Awareness System > Alerts > Adobe Acrobat and Reader Vulnerability More Alerts Alert (TA09-051A) Adobe Acrobat and Reader Vulnerability Original release date: February 20, 2009  | Last revised : January 24, 2013 Systems Affected Adobe Reader version 9 and earlier Adobe Acrobat (Professional, 3D, and Standard) version 9 and earlier Overview Adobe has released Security Advisory APSA09-01 , which describes a buffer overflow vulnerability that occurs when Adobe Reader and Acrobat handle files with specially crafted JBIG2 streams. This vulnerability could allow a remote attacker to execute arbitrary code. Description Adobe Security Advisory APSA09-01 describes a memory-corruption vulnerability that affects Adobe Reader and Acrobat. Further details are available in Vulnerability Note VU#905281 . An attacker could exploit these vulnerabilities by convincing a user to load a specially crafted Adobe Portable Document Format (PDF) file. Acrobat integrates with popular web browsers, and visiting a website is usually sufficient to cause Acrobat to load PDF content. Impact An attacker may be able to execute arbitrary code. Solution Update Adobe has released updates to address this issue. Users are encouraged to read Adobe Security Bulletins APSB09-03 and APSB09-04 and update vulnerable versions of Adobe Reader and Acrobat. Disable JavaScript in Adobe Reader and Acrobat Disabling Javascript may prevent some exploits from resulting in code execution. Acrobat JavaScript can be disabled using the Preferences menu ( Edit -> Preferences -> JavaScript and un-check Enable Acrobat JavaScript ). Prevent Internet Explorer from automatically opening PDF documents The installer for Adobe Reader and Acrobat configures Internet Explorer to automatically open PDF files without any user interaction. This behavior can be reverted to the safer option of prompting the user by importing the following as a .REG file: Windows Registry Editor Version 5.00 [HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT\AcroExch.Document.7] "EditFlags"=hex:00,00,00,00 Disable the display of PDF documents in the web browser Preventing PDF documents from opening inside a web browser will partially mitigate this vulnerability. If this workaround is applied it may also mitigate future vulnerabilities. To prevent PDF documents from automatically being opened in a web browser, do the following: 1. Open Adobe Acrobat Reader. 2. Open the Edit menu. 3. Choose the preferences option. 4. Choose the Internet section. 5. Un-check the " Display PDF in browser " check box. Do not access PDF documents from untrusted sources Do not open unfamiliar or unexpected PDF documents, particularly those hosted on web sites or delivered as email attachments. Please see Cyber Security Tip ST04-010 . References Adobe Security Bulletin APSB09-04 Adobe Security Bulletin APSB09-03 Adobe Security Advisory APSA09-01 Securing Your Web Browser Vulnerability Note VU#905281 CVE-2009-0658 Revisions February 20, 2009: Updated March 18, 2009: Updated March 18, 2009: Updated This product is provided subject to this Notification and this Privacy & Use policy. Please share your thoughts. We recently updated our anonymous product survey ; we'd welcome your feedback. Contact Us (888)282-0870 Send us email Download PGP/GPG keys Submit website feedback Subscribe to Alerts Receive security alerts, tips, and other updates. Enter your email address HSIN Report Home Site Map FAQ Contact Us Traffic Light Protocol PCII Accountability Disclaimer Privacy Policy FOIA No Fear Act Accessibility Plain Writing Plug-ins Inspector General The White House USA.gov CISA is part of the Department of Homeland Security