Oracle Releases Updates for Javadoc and Other Java SE Vulnerabilities | CISA Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. CISA.gov Services Report Toggle navigation CISA.gov Services Report CertMain Menu Alerts and Tips Resources Industrial Control Systems TLP:WHITE TLP:WHITE National Cyber Awareness System > Alerts > Oracle Releases Updates for Javadoc and Other Java SE Vulnerabilities More Alerts Alert (TA13-169A) Oracle Releases Updates for Javadoc and Other Java SE Vulnerabilities Original release date: June 18, 2013  | Last revised : October 07, 2016 Systems Affected Any system using Oracle Java including JDK and JRE 7 Update 21 and earlier JDK and JRE 6 Update 45 and earlier JDK and JRE 5.0 Update 45 and earlier JavaFX 2.2.21 and earlier Website owners that host Javadoc HTML API documentation Overview Oracle released the June 2013 Critical Patch Update for Oracle Java SE . This patch contains 40 new security fixes across Java SE products and a fix to the Javadoc Tool . API documentation in HTML format generated by the Javadoc tool that contains a right frame may be vulnerable to frame injection when hosted on a web server. Description Oracle's June Critical Patch Update includes a fix to the Javadoc Tool . API documentation in HTML format generated by the Javadoc tool that contains a right frame may be vulnerable to frame injection when hosted on a web server. Additional information can be found in CERT Vulnerablity Report VU#225657 . It is recommened that sites hosting such pages should re-generate the API documentation using the latest Javadoc tool and replace the current pages with the re-generated Javadoc output. In cases where regenerating API documentation is not feasible, a Java API Documentation Updater Tool that updates API documentation "in place" is available Oracle's Java SE Downloads page . Impact An attacker can cause one of the frames within a Javadoc-generated web page to be replaced with a malicious page. This vulnerability could be used for phishing or social engineering, or it could be used for browser exploitation if combined with another browser-related vulnerability. Solution Apply Updates Oracle has released the June 2013 Java Critical Patch Update to address this vulnerability. Oracle Java Development Toolkit (JDK) and Javadoc users are advised to apply the June 2013 Java Critical Patch Update and regenerate and republish affected Javadoc HTML pages. Fix-in-Place Tool Oracle has released a fix-in-place tool named Java API Documentation Updater Tool . This fix-in-place tool can process directories or folders to search for HTML files to be remediated without having to regenerate existing Javadocs. When presented directories/folders and their sub-directories or sub-folders, the Java API Documentation Updater Tool will search for files with the following names: index.htm index.html toc.htm toc.html For each file that matches the names noted above, the Java API Documentation Updater Tool will search the file for the affected JavaScript text and replace it with the remediated version. Note that this tool will not detect Javadoc pages that have been renamed to something other than one of the above page names. References Oracle Java SE Critical Patch Update Announcement - June 2013 Vulnerability Note VU#225657 Oracle Java SE Critical Patch Update Advisory - June 2013 CVE-2013-1571 Javadoc Tool Revisions Initial Release This product is provided subject to this Notification and this Privacy & Use policy. Please share your thoughts. We recently updated our anonymous product survey ; we'd welcome your feedback. Contact Us (888)282-0870 Send us email Download PGP/GPG keys Submit website feedback Subscribe to Alerts Receive security alerts, tips, and other updates. Enter your email address HSIN Report Home Site Map FAQ Contact Us Traffic Light Protocol PCII Accountability Disclaimer Privacy Policy FOIA No Fear Act Accessibility Plain Writing Plug-ins Inspector General The White House USA.gov CISA is part of the Department of Homeland Security