Adobe Updates for Microsoft Windows URI Vulnerability | CISA Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. CISA.gov Services Report Toggle navigation CISA.gov Services Report CertMain Menu Alerts and Tips Resources Industrial Control Systems TLP:WHITE TLP:WHITE National Cyber Awareness System > Archives Alerts > Adobe Updates for Microsoft Windows URI Vulnerability This document is part of the US-CERT website archive. These documents are no longer updated and may contain outdated information. Links may also no longer function. Please contact info@us-cert.gov if you have any questions about the US-CERT website archive. More Alerts Alert (TA07-297B) Adobe Updates for Microsoft Windows URI Vulnerability Original release date: October 24, 2007 Systems Affected Microsoft Windows XP and Windows Server 2003 systems with Internet Explorer 7 and any of the following Adobe products: Adobe Reader 8.1 and earlier Adobe Acrobat Professional, 3D, and Standard 8.1 and earlier Adobe Reader 7.0.9 and earlier Adobe Acrobat Professional, 3D, Standard, and Elements 7.0.9 and earlier Overview Adobe has released updates for the Adobe Reader and Adobe Acrobat product families.  The update addresses a URI handling vulnerability in Microsoft Windows XP and Server 2003 systems with Internet Explorer 7. Description Installing Microsoft Internet Explorer (IE) 7 on Windows XP or Server 2003 changes the way Windows handles Uniform Resource Identifiers (URIs).  This change has introduced a flaw that can cause Windows to incorrectly determine the appropriate handler for the protocol specified in a URI. By creating a specially crafted URI in a PDF document, an attacker can execute arbitrary commands on a vulnerable system. More information about this vulnerability is available in US-CERT Vulnerability Note VU#403150 . Public reports indicate that this vulnerability is being actively exploited with malicious PDF files.  Adobe has released Adobe Reader 8.1.1 and Adobe Acrobat 8.1.1, which mitigate this vulnerability. Impact By convincing a user to open a specially crafted PDF file, a remote, unauthenticated attacker may be able to execute arbitrary commands. Solution Apply an update Adobe has released Adobe Reader 8.1.1 and Adobe Acrobat 8.1.1 to
address this issue.  These Adobe products handle URIs in a way that
mitigates the vulnerability in Microsoft Windows. Disable the mailto: URI in Adobe Reader and Adobe Acrobat If you are unable to install an updated version of the software, this
vulnerability can be mitigated by disabling the mailto: URI handler in
Adobe Reader and Adobe Acrobat.  Please see Adobe Security Bulletin APSB07-18 for details. Appendix A. Vendor Information Adobe For information about updating affected Adobe products, see Adobe Security Bulletin APSB07-18 . Appendix B. References Adobe Security Bulletin APSB07-18  - http://www.adobe.com/support/security/bulletins/apsb07-18.htm Microsoft Security Advisory (943521) - http://www.microsoft.com/technet/security/advisory/943521.mspx US-CERT Vulnerability Note VU#403150  - http://www.kb.cert.org/vuls/id/403150 Feedback can be directed to US-CERT Technical Staff . Produced by US-CERT, a government organization. Terms of use Revision History October 24, 2007:  Initial release This product is provided subject to this Notification and this Privacy & Use policy. Please share your thoughts. We recently updated our anonymous product survey ; we'd welcome your feedback. Contact Us (888)282-0870 Send us email Download PGP/GPG keys Submit website feedback Subscribe to Alerts Receive security alerts, tips, and other updates. Enter your email address HSIN Report Home Site Map FAQ Contact Us Traffic Light Protocol PCII Accountability Disclaimer Privacy Policy FOIA No Fear Act Accessibility Plain Writing Plug-ins Inspector General The White House USA.gov CISA is part of the Department of Homeland Security