Microsoft Windows EOT Font and Adobe Flash Player 6 Vulnerabilities | CISA Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. CISA.gov Services Report Toggle navigation CISA.gov Services Report CertMain Menu Alerts and Tips Resources Industrial Control Systems TLP:WHITE TLP:WHITE National Cyber Awareness System > Alerts > Microsoft Windows EOT Font and Adobe Flash Player 6 Vulnerabilities More Alerts Alert (TA10-012B) Microsoft Windows EOT Font and Adobe Flash Player 6 Vulnerabilities Original release date: January 12, 2010  | Last revised : January 24, 2013 Systems Affected Microsoft Windows and Internet Explorer Adobe (Macromedia) Flash Player 6 Overview Microsoft has released updates to address a vulnerability in the Windows Embedded Open Type (EOT) font engine. Microsoft has also published an Advisory about multiple vulnerabilities in Adobe (Macromedia) Flash Player 6 that is included with Windows XP. Description Microsoft Security Bulletin MS10-001 describes a vulnerability in the Embedded Open Type (EOT) font engine in Windows. Microsoft Security Advisory ( 979267 ) recommends that Windows XP users remove or upgrade Adobe Flash Player 6 (formerly Macromedia Flash Player) that is included with Windows XP. Vulnerability Note VU#204889 discusses one vulnerability in Flash Player 6 and provides several workarounds. These vulnerabilities could be exploited by loading specially crafted fonts or Flash content via Internet Explorer. Microsoft assigns the EOT font vulnerability a "low" severity rating in most current versions of Windows and notes that reliable code execution is unlikely. The severity rating for Windows 2000, however, is "critical." Impact A remote, unauthenticated attacker could execute arbitrary code, gain elevated privileges, or cause a vulnerable application to crash. Solution Apply updates from Microsoft Microsoft Security Bulletin MS10-001 provides updates for the EOT font vulnerability. The security bulletin describes any known issues related to the updates. Administrators are encouraged to note these issues and test for any potentially adverse effects. Administrators should consider using an automated update distribution system such as Windows Server Update Services (WSUS). Upgrade, Remove, or Disable Adobe Flash Player 6 Adobe Flash Player 6 is included with Windows XP. Adobe has addresssed these vulnerabilities in newer versions of Flash Player. Upgrade to a more recent version of Flash Player (such as Flash Player 10). Alternatively, uninstall Flash Player or set the kill bit for the Flash Player ActiveX control as described in Microsoft Security Advisory ( 979267 ) and Vulnerability Note VU#204889 . References Microsoft Security Bulletin Summary for January 2010 Microsoft Security Bulletin MS10-001 MS10-001: Font file decompression vulnerability CVE-2010-0018 Vulnerabilities in Adobe Flash Player 6 Provided in Windows XP Could Allow Remo… Vulnerability Note VU#204889 Adobe Flash Player How to uninstall the Adobe Flash Player plug-in and ActiveX control Windows Server Update Services (WSUS) Revisions January 12, 2010: Initial release This product is provided subject to this Notification and this Privacy & Use policy. Please share your thoughts. We recently updated our anonymous product survey ; we'd welcome your feedback. Contact Us (888)282-0870 Send us email Download PGP/GPG keys Submit website feedback Subscribe to Alerts Receive security alerts, tips, and other updates. Enter your email address HSIN Report Home Site Map FAQ Contact Us Traffic Light Protocol PCII Accountability Disclaimer Privacy Policy FOIA No Fear Act Accessibility Plain Writing Plug-ins Inspector General The White House USA.gov CISA is part of the Department of Homeland Security