Microsoft Windows OLE Automation Array Remote Code Execution Vulnerability | CISA Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. CISA.gov Services Report Toggle navigation CISA.gov Services Report CertMain Menu Alerts and Tips Resources Industrial Control Systems TLP:WHITE TLP:WHITE National Cyber Awareness System > Alerts > Microsoft Windows OLE Automation Array Remote Code Execution Vulnerability More Alerts Alert (TA14-318B) Microsoft Windows OLE Automation Array Remote Code Execution Vulnerability Original release date: November 14, 2014  | Last revised : September 30, 2016 Systems Affected Microsoft Windows Vista, 7, 8, 8.1, RT, and RT 8.1 Microsoft Server 2003, Server 2008, Server 2008 R2, Server 2012, and Server 2012 R2 Overview A vulnerability in Microsoft Windows Object Linking and Embedding (OLE) could allow remote code execution if a user views a specially-crafted web page in Internet Explorer. [1] Description The Microsoft Windows OLE OleAut32.dll library provides the SafeArrayRedim function that allows resizing of SAFEARRAY objects in memory. [2] In certain circumstances, this library does not properly check sizes of arrays when an error occurs. The improper size allows an attacker to manipulate memory in a way that can bypass the Internet Explorer Enhanced Protected Mode (EPM) sandbox as well as the Enhanced Mitigation Experience Toolkit (EMET). This vulnerability can be exploited using a specially-crafted web page utilizing VBscript in Internet Explorer. However, it may impact other software that makes use of OleAut32.dll and VBscript. Exploit code is publicly available for this vulnerability. Additional details may be found in CERT/CC Vulnerability Note VU#158647 . Impact Arbitrary code can be run on the computer with user privileges. If the user is an administrator, the attacker may run arbitrary code as an administrator, fully compromising the system. Solution An update is available from Microsoft. [3] Please see Microsoft Security Bulletin MS14-064 for more details and mitigation guidance, and apply the necessary updates. References [1] NIST Vulnerability Summary for CVE-2014-6332 [2] IBM X-Force Researcher Finds Significant Vulnerability in Microsoft Windows [3] Microsoft Security Bulletin MS14-064 Revisions November 14, 2014: Initial Release This product is provided subject to this Notification and this Privacy & Use policy. Please share your thoughts. We recently updated our anonymous product survey ; we'd welcome your feedback. Contact Us (888)282-0870 Send us email Download PGP/GPG keys Submit website feedback Subscribe to Alerts Receive security alerts, tips, and other updates. Enter your email address HSIN Report Home Site Map FAQ Contact Us Traffic Light Protocol PCII Accountability Disclaimer Privacy Policy FOIA No Fear Act Accessibility Plain Writing Plug-ins Inspector General The White House USA.gov CISA is part of the Department of Homeland Security