Microsoft Video ActiveX Control Vulnerability | CISA Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. CISA.gov Services Report Toggle navigation CISA.gov Services Report CertMain Menu Alerts and Tips Resources Industrial Control Systems TLP:WHITE TLP:WHITE National Cyber Awareness System > Alerts > Microsoft Video ActiveX Control Vulnerability More Alerts Alert (TA09-187A) Microsoft Video ActiveX Control Vulnerability Original release date: July 06, 2009  | Last revised : January 24, 2013 Systems Affected Microsoft Windows XP Microsoft Windows Server 2003 Overview An unpatched vulnerability in the Microsoft Video ActiveX control is being used in attacks. Description Microsoft has released Security Advisory (972890) to describe attacks on a vulnerability in the Microsoft Video ActiveX control. Because no fix is currently available for this vulnerability, please see the Security Advisory and US-CERT Vulnerability Note VU#180513 for workarounds. Impact A remote, unauthenticated attacker could execute arbitrary code with the privileges of the victim user. Solution Apply Updates Microsoft has released an update to address this issue. See Microsoft Security Bulletin MS09-032 for more details. Apply workarounds Microsoft has provided workarounds for this vulnerability in Security Advisory (972890) . Additional details and workarounds are provided in US-CERT Vulnerability Note VU#180513 . The most effective workaround for this vulnerability is to set kill bits for the Microsoft Video ActiveX control, as outlined in the documents noted above. Other workarounds include disabling ActiveX, as specified in the Securing Your Web Browser document, and upgrading to Internet Explorer 7 or later, which can help mitigate the vulnerability with its ActiveX opt-in feature. References US-CERT Vulnerability Note VU#180513 Microsoft Security Advisory (972890) Microsoft Security Bulletin Securing Your Web Browser Revisions July 06, 2009: Initial release July 15, 2009: Updated This product is provided subject to this Notification and this Privacy & Use policy. Please share your thoughts. We recently updated our anonymous product survey ; we'd welcome your feedback. Contact Us (888)282-0870 Send us email Download PGP/GPG keys Submit website feedback Subscribe to Alerts Receive security alerts, tips, and other updates. Enter your email address HSIN Report Home Site Map FAQ Contact Us Traffic Light Protocol PCII Accountability Disclaimer Privacy Policy FOIA No Fear Act Accessibility Plain Writing Plug-ins Inspector General The White House USA.gov CISA is part of the Department of Homeland Security