Adobe Updates for Multiple Vulnerabilities | CISA Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. CISA.gov Services Report Toggle navigation CISA.gov Services Report CertMain Menu Alerts and Tips Resources Industrial Control Systems TLP:WHITE TLP:WHITE National Cyber Awareness System > Archives Alerts > Adobe Updates for Multiple Vulnerabilities This document is part of the US-CERT website archive. These documents are no longer updated and may contain outdated information. Links may also no longer function. Please contact info@us-cert.gov if you have any questions about the US-CERT website archive. More Alerts Alert (TA07-355A) Adobe Updates for Multiple Vulnerabilities Original release date: December 21, 2007 Systems Affected Adobe Flash Player 9.0.48.0 and earlier Adobe Flash Player 8.0.35.0 and earlier Adobe Flash Player 7.0.70.0 and earlier Overview Adobe has released Security bulletin APSB07-20 to address multiple vulnerabilities affecting Adobe Flash Player. Attackers could exploit these vulnerabilities to execute arbitrary code, perform DNS rebinding and cross-site scripting attacks, conduct port scans, or cause a denial of service. Description Adobe Security Update APSB07-20 addresses a number of vulnerabilities affecting Adobe Flash 9.0.48.0 and earlier, 8.0.35.0 and earlier and 7.0.70 and earlier. Further details are available in the related vulnerability notes . An attacker could exploit these vulnerabilities by convincing a user to load a specially crafted Flash file. Flash content is widely deployed on the internet. An attacker could distribute Flash files using web sites that allow user-supplied content, like popular social networking sites. Impact The impacts of these vulnerabilities vary. An attacker may be able to execute arbitrary code, perform DNS rebinding or cross-site scripting attacks, conduct port scans, or cause a denial of service. Solution Upgrade Flash Player Upgrade Flash Player according to the information in Adobe Security bulletin APSB97-20 . For the port scanning issue (CVE-2007-4324), consider ActionScript network socket functionality per TechNote kb402956 . Adobe provides a way to determine which version of Flash Player is installed and a way to configure notifications of updates. References Vulnerability notes for Adobe Security Update APSB07-20 - http://www.kb.cert.org/vuls/byid?searchview&query=APSB07-20 Adobe Security Bulletin APSB07-20 - http://www.adobe.com/support/security/bulletins/apsb07-20.html Securing Your Web Browser - http://www.us-cert.gov/reading_room/securing_browser/ Revision History December 21, 2007:  Initial release This product is provided subject to this Notification and this Privacy & Use policy. Please share your thoughts. We recently updated our anonymous product survey ; we'd welcome your feedback. Contact Us (888)282-0870 Send us email Download PGP/GPG keys Submit website feedback Subscribe to Alerts Receive security alerts, tips, and other updates. Enter your email address HSIN Report Home Site Map FAQ Contact Us Traffic Light Protocol PCII Accountability Disclaimer Privacy Policy FOIA No Fear Act Accessibility Plain Writing Plug-ins Inspector General The White House USA.gov CISA is part of the Department of Homeland Security