Vulnerability in Microsoft Image Processing Component | CISA Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. CISA.gov Services Report Toggle navigation CISA.gov Services Report CertMain Menu Alerts and Tips Resources Industrial Control Systems TLP:WHITE TLP:WHITE National Cyber Awareness System > Archives Alerts > Vulnerability in Microsoft Image Processing Component This document is part of the US-CERT website archive. These documents are no longer updated and may contain outdated information. Links may also no longer function. Please contact info@us-cert.gov if you have any questions about the US-CERT website archive. More Alerts Alert (SA04-258A) Vulnerability in Microsoft Image Processing Component Original release date: September 14, 2004 Systems Affected Applications that process JPEG images on Microsoft Windows, including 
but not limited to Internet Explorer Microsoft Office Microsoft Visual Studio Picture It! Applications from other vendors besides Microsoft Overview An attacker may be able to gain control of your computer by taking
advantage of the way some programs process the JPEG image format. Solution Apply a patch Microsoft has issued updates to address the problem. Obtain the
appropriate update from Windows Update and from Office Update . Note: You may need to install multiple patches depending what
software you have on your computer. Use caution with email attachments Never open unexpected email attachments. Before opening an attachment,
save it to a disk and scan it with anti-virus software. Make sure to
turn off the option to automatically download attachments. View email messages in plain text Email programs like Outlook and Outlook Express interpret HTML code
the same way that Internet Explorer does. Attackers may be able to
take advantage of that by sending malicious HTML-formatted email
messages. Maintain updated anti-virus software It is important that you use anti-virus software and keep it up to
date. Most anti-virus software vendors frequently release updated
information, tools, or virus databases to help detect and recover from
virus infections. Many anti-virus packages support automatic updates
of virus definitions. US-CERT recommends using these automatic updates
when possible. Description Microsoft Windows Graphics Device Interface (GDI+) is used to display information on screens 
and printers, including JPEG image files. An attacker could execute arbitrary code on a vulnerable system if the user opens a malicious JPEG file via applications such as a web browser, email program, internet chat program, or  
via email attachment. Any application that uses GDI+ to process JPEG image files is vulnerable to this type of attack. This vulnerability also affects products from 
companies 
other than Microsoft. References September 2004 Security Update for JPEG Processing (GDI+) - < http://www.microsoft.com/security/bulletins/200409_jpeg.mspx > US-CERT Vulnerability Note VU#297462 - < http://www.kb.cert.org/vuls/id/297462 > Author: Mindi McDowell. . Copyright 2004 Carnegie Mellon University. Terms of use Revision History September 14, 2004:  Initial release Last updated This product is provided subject to this Notification and this Privacy & Use policy. Please share your thoughts. We recently updated our anonymous product survey ; we'd welcome your feedback. Contact Us (888)282-0870 Send us email Download PGP/GPG keys Submit website feedback Subscribe to Alerts Receive security alerts, tips, and other updates. Enter your email address HSIN Report Home Site Map FAQ Contact Us Traffic Light Protocol PCII Accountability Disclaimer Privacy Policy FOIA No Fear Act Accessibility Plain Writing Plug-ins Inspector General The White House USA.gov CISA is part of the Department of Homeland Security