Mozilla Updates for Multiple Vulnerabilities | CISA Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. CISA.gov Services Report Toggle navigation CISA.gov Services Report CertMain Menu Alerts and Tips Resources Industrial Control Systems TLP:WHITE TLP:WHITE National Cyber Awareness System > Archives Alerts > Mozilla Updates for Multiple Vulnerabilities This document is part of the US-CERT website archive. These documents are no longer updated and may contain outdated information. Links may also no longer function. Please contact info@us-cert.gov if you have any questions about the US-CERT website archive. More Alerts Alert (TA07-151A) Mozilla Updates for Multiple Vulnerabilities Original release date: May 31, 2007  | Last revised : June 20, 2007 Systems Affected Mozilla Firefox Mozilla Thunderbird Mozilla SeaMonkey Netscape Browser Other products based on Mozilla components may also be affected. Overview The Mozilla web browser and derived products contain several vulnerabilities, the most severe of which could allow a remote attacker to execute arbitrary code on an affected system. Description Mozilla has released new versions of Firefox, Thunderbird, and SeaMonkey to address several vulnerabilities. Further details about these vulnerabilities are available from Mozilla and the Vulnerability Notes Database . An attacker could exploit these vulnerabilities by convincing a user to view a specially-crafted HTML document, such as a web page or an HTML email message. Support for Firefox 1.5 is scheduled to end in June 2007. According to Mozilla : Firefox 1.5.0.x will be maintained with security and stability updates until June 2007. All users are strongly encouraged to upgrade to Firefox 2 . Impact While the impacts of the individual vulnerabilities vary, the most severe could allow a remote, unauthenticated attacker to execute arbitrary code on a vulnerable system. An attacker may also be able to cause a denial of service. Solution Upgrade These vulnerabilities are addressed in  Mozilla Firefox 2.0.0.4 ,  Firefox 1.5.0.12 , Thunderbird 2.0.0.4 , Thunderbird 1.5.0.12 , SeaMonkey 1.0.9 , SeaMonkey 1.1.2 . By default, Mozilla Firefox, Thunderbird, and SeaMonkey automatically check for updates. Thunderbird 2.0.0.4 was released on June 13, 2007. Disable JavaScript and Java Some of these vulnerabilities can be mitigated by disabling JavaScript and Java.  For more information about configuring Firefox, please see the Securing Your Web Browser document.  Netscape users should see the Site Controls document for details.
  Thunderbird disables JavaScript and Java by default. References US-CERT Vulnerability Notes - http://www.kb.cert.org/vuls/byid?searchview&query=mozilla_20070531 Securing Your Web Browser - http://www.us-cert.gov/reading_room/securing_browser/browser_security.html#Mozilla_Firefox Mozilla Foundation Security Advisories - http://www.mozilla.org/security/announce/ Known Vulnerabilities in Mozilla Products - http://www.mozilla.org/projects/security/known-vulnerabilities.html Mozilla Hall of Fame - http://www.mozilla.org/university/HOF.html Site Controls - http://browser.netscape.com/ns8/help/options-site.jsp Revision History May 31, 2007:  Initial release June 08 2007:  Updated information regarding availability of Thunderbird 2.0.0.4 and added disable JavaScript workaround June 20 2007:  Updated alert to note that Thunderbird 2.0.0.4 is now available This product is provided subject to this Notification and this Privacy & Use policy. Please share your thoughts. We recently updated our anonymous product survey ; we'd welcome your feedback. Contact Us (888)282-0870 Send us email Download PGP/GPG keys Submit website feedback Subscribe to Alerts Receive security alerts, tips, and other updates. Enter your email address HSIN Report Home Site Map FAQ Contact Us Traffic Light Protocol PCII Accountability Disclaimer Privacy Policy FOIA No Fear Act Accessibility Plain Writing Plug-ins Inspector General The White House USA.gov CISA is part of the Department of Homeland Security