Adobe Flash Vulnerabilities Affect Flash Player and Adobe AIR | CISA Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. CISA.gov Services Report Toggle navigation CISA.gov Services Report CertMain Menu Alerts and Tips Resources Industrial Control Systems TLP:WHITE TLP:WHITE National Cyber Awareness System > Alerts > Adobe Flash Vulnerabilities Affect Flash Player and Adobe AIR More Alerts Alert (TA09-343A) Adobe Flash Vulnerabilities Affect Flash Player and Adobe AIR Original release date: December 09, 2009  | Last revised : January 24, 2013 Systems Affected Adobe Flash Player 10.0.32.18 and earlier versions Adobe AIR 1.5.2 and earlier versions Overview Adobe has released Security bulletin APSB09-19 , which describes vulnerabilities affecting Adobe Flash Player and Adobe AIR. Description Adobe Security Bulletin APSB09-19 describes vulnerabilities affecting Adobe Flash Player and Adobe AIR. Flash Player version 10.0.32.18 and earlier versions as well as Adobe AIR versions 1.5.2 and earlier are affected. An attacker could exploit this vulnerability by convincing a user to visit a website that hosts a specially crafted SWF file. The Adobe Flash browser plugin is available for multiple web browsers and operating systems, any of which could be affected. Impact This vulnerability allows a remote attacker to execute arbitrary code as the result of a user viewing a web page. Solution Users are encouraged to update Flash Player 10.0.32.18 and earlier versions as well as Adobe AIR 1.5.2 and earlier versions to the latest version. These vulnerabilities can be mitigated by disabling the Flash plugin or by using the NoScript extension for Mozilla Firefox or SeaMonkey to whitelist websites that can access the Flash plugin. For more information about securely configuring web browsers, please see the Securing Your Web Browser document. References Adobe Security Bulletin APSB09-19 Revisions December 09, 2009: Initial release This product is provided subject to this Notification and this Privacy & Use policy. Please share your thoughts. We recently updated our anonymous product survey ; we'd welcome your feedback. Contact Us (888)282-0870 Send us email Download PGP/GPG keys Submit website feedback Subscribe to Alerts Receive security alerts, tips, and other updates. Enter your email address HSIN Report Home Site Map FAQ Contact Us Traffic Light Protocol PCII Accountability Disclaimer Privacy Policy FOIA No Fear Act Accessibility Plain Writing Plug-ins Inspector General The White House USA.gov CISA is part of the Department of Homeland Security