Cisco IOS IPv6 Vulnerability | CISA Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. CISA.gov Services Report Toggle navigation CISA.gov Services Report CertMain Menu Alerts and Tips Resources Industrial Control Systems TLP:WHITE TLP:WHITE National Cyber Awareness System > Archives Alerts > Cisco IOS IPv6 Vulnerability This document is part of the US-CERT website archive. These documents are no longer updated and may contain outdated information. Links may also no longer function. Please contact info@us-cert.gov if you have any questions about the US-CERT website archive. More Alerts Alert (TA05-210A) Cisco IOS IPv6 Vulnerability Original release date: July 29, 2005 Systems Affected Cisco IOS devices with IPv6 enabled For specific information, please see the Cisco Advisory . Overview Cisco IOS IPv6 processing functionality contains a vulnerability that could allow an unauthenticated, remote attacker to execute arbitrary code or cause a denial of service. Description Cisco IOS contains a vulnerability in the way IPv6 packets are processed.  US-CERT has not confirmed further technical details. According to the Cisco Advisory, this vulnerability could be exploited by an attacker on the same IP subnet: Crafted packets from the local segment received on logical interfaces (that is, tunnels including 6to4 tunnels) as well as physical interfaces can trigger this vulnerability. Crafted packets can not traverse a 6to4 tunnel and attack a box across the tunnel. The crafted packet must be sent from a local network segment to trigger the attack. This vulnerability can not be exploited one or more hops from the IOS device. US-CERT strongly recommends that sites running Cisco IOS devices review the Cisco Advisory and upgrade as appropriate.  We are tracking this vulnerability as VU#930892 . Impact This vulnerability could allow an unauthenticated, remote attacker on the same IP subnet to execute arbitrary code or cause a denial of service.  The attacker may be able to take control of a vulnerable device. Solutions Upgrade Upgrade to a fixed version of IOS.  Please see the Software Versions and Fixes section of the Cisco Advisory for details. Disable IPv6 From the Cisco Advisory: In networks where IPv6 is not needed, disabling IPv6 processing on an IOS device will eliminate exposure to this vulnerability. On a router which supports IPv6, this must be done by issuing the command " no ipv6 enable " and " no ipv6 address " on each interface. Appendix A. Vendor Information Cisco Systems, Inc. Cisco Systems, Inc. has released a security advisory regarding a vulnerability which was disclosed on July 27, 2005 at the Black Hat security conference.  Security advisory is available at: http://www.cisco.com/warp/public/707/cisco-sa-20050729-ipv6.shtml For up-to-date information on security vulnerabilities in Cisco Systems, Inc. products, visit http://www.cisco.com/go/psirt . Appendix B. References US-CERT Vulnerability Note VU#930892 - http://www.kb.cert.org/vuls/id/930892> Cisco Security Advisory: IPv6 Crafted Packet Vulnerability - http://www.cisco.com/en/US/products/products_security_advisory09186a00804d82c9.shtml> Information regarding this vulnerability was primarily provided by Cisco Systems, who in turn acknowledge the disclosure of this vulnerability at the Black Hat USA 2005 Briefings. Feedback can be directed to US-CERT Technical Staff . Produced by US-CERT, a government organization. Terms of use Revision History July 29, 2005:  Initial release Last updated This product is provided subject to this Notification and this Privacy & Use policy. Please share your thoughts. We recently updated our anonymous product survey ; we'd welcome your feedback. Contact Us (888)282-0870 Send us email Download PGP/GPG keys Submit website feedback Subscribe to Alerts Receive security alerts, tips, and other updates. Enter your email address HSIN Report Home Site Map FAQ Contact Us Traffic Light Protocol PCII Accountability Disclaimer Privacy Policy FOIA No Fear Act Accessibility Plain Writing Plug-ins Inspector General The White House USA.gov CISA is part of the Department of Homeland Security