Wi-Fi Protected Setup (WPS) Vulnerable to Brute-Force Attack | CISA Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. CISA.gov Services Report Toggle navigation CISA.gov Services Report CertMain Menu Alerts and Tips Resources Industrial Control Systems TLP:WHITE TLP:WHITE National Cyber Awareness System > Alerts > Wi-Fi Protected Setup (WPS) Vulnerable to Brute-Force Attack More Alerts Alert (TA12-006A) Wi-Fi Protected Setup (WPS) Vulnerable to Brute-Force Attack Original release date: January 06, 2012  | Last revised : January 23, 2013 Systems Affected Most Wi-Fi access points that support Wi-Fi Protected Setup (WPS) are affected. Overview Wi-Fi Protected Setup (WPS) provides simplified mechanisms to configure secure wireless networks. The external registrar PIN exchange mechanism is susceptible to brute-force attacks that could allow an attacker to gain access to an encrypted Wi-Fi network. Description WPS uses a PIN as a shared secret to authenticate an access point and a client and provide connection information such as WEP and WPA passwords and keys. In the external registrar exchange method, a client needs to provide the correct PIN to the access point. An attacking client can try to guess the correct PIN. A design vulnerability reduces the effective PIN space sufficiently to allow practical brute force attacks. Freely available attack tools can recover a WPS PIN in 4-10 hours. For further details, please see Vulnerability Note VU#723755 and documentation by Stefan Viehböck and Tactical Network Solutions . Impact An attacker within radio range can brute-force the WPS PIN for a vulnerable access point. The attacker can then obtain WEP or WPA passwords and likely gain access to the Wi-Fi network. Once on the network, the attacker can monitor traffic and mount further attacks. Solution Update Firmware Check your access point vendor's support website for updated firmware that addresses this vulnerability. Further information may be available in the Vendor Information section of VU#723755 and in a Google spreadsheet called WPS Vulnerability Testing . Disable WPS Depending on the access point, it may be possible to disable WPS. Note that some access points may not actually disable WPS when the web management interface indicates that WPS is disabled. References Vulnerability Note VU#723755 Wi-Fi Protected Setup PIN brute force vulnerability Cracking WiFi Protected Setup with Reaver WPS Vulnerability Testing Revisions January 06, 2012: Updated January 06, 2012: Updated This product is provided subject to this Notification and this Privacy & Use policy. Please share your thoughts. We recently updated our anonymous product survey ; we'd welcome your feedback. Contact Us (888)282-0870 Send us email Download PGP/GPG keys Submit website feedback Subscribe to Alerts Receive security alerts, tips, and other updates. Enter your email address HSIN Report Home Site Map FAQ Contact Us Traffic Light Protocol PCII Accountability Disclaimer Privacy Policy FOIA No Fear Act Accessibility Plain Writing Plug-ins Inspector General The White House USA.gov CISA is part of the Department of Homeland Security