Microsoft Updates for Multiple Vulnerabilities | CISA Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. CISA.gov Services Report Toggle navigation CISA.gov Services Report CertMain Menu Alerts and Tips Resources Industrial Control Systems TLP:WHITE TLP:WHITE National Cyber Awareness System > Alerts > Microsoft Updates for Multiple Vulnerabilities More Alerts Alert (TA09-223A) Microsoft Updates for Multiple Vulnerabilities Original release date: August 11, 2009  | Last revised : January 24, 2013 Systems Affected Microsoft Windows and Windows Server Microsoft Office Remote Desktop Connection Client for Mac 2.0 Overview Microsoft has released updates to address vulnerabilities in Microsoft Windows, Windows Server, Office Web Components and Remote Desktop Connection for Mac. Description Microsoft has released multiple security bulletins for critical vulnerabilities in Windows, Windows Server, Office Web Components, and Remote Desktop Connection for Mac. These bulletins are described in the Microsoft Security Bulletin Summary for August 2009 . Microsoft Security Bulletin MS09-037 includes updates for Microsoft components to address vulnerabilities in the Active Template Library ( ATL ). Vulnerabilities present in the ATL can cause vulnerabilities in the resulting ActiveX controls and COM components. Any ActiveX control or COM component that was created with a vulnerable version of the ATL may be vulnerable, including ones distributed by third-party developers. Developers should update the ATL as described in the previously released Microsoft Security Bulletin MS09-035 in order to stop creating vulnerable controls. To address vulnerabilities in existing controls, recompile the controls using the updated ATL. Further discussion about the ATL vulnerabilities can be found in the Microsoft Security Advisory 973882 . Impact An attacker may be able to execute arbitrary code, in some cases without user interaction. Solution Apply updates from Microsoft Microsoft has provided updates for these vulnerabilities in the Microsoft Security Bulletin Summary for August 2009 . The security bulletin describes any known issues related to the updates. Administrators are encouraged to note these issues and test for any potentially adverse effects. Administrators should consider using an automated update distribution system such as Windows Server Update Services (WSUS). References Microsoft Security Bulletin Summary for August 2009 Microsoft Security Advisory 973882 Microsoft Update Windows Server Update Services Revisions August 11, 2009: Initial release This product is provided subject to this Notification and this Privacy & Use policy. Please share your thoughts. We recently updated our anonymous product survey ; we'd welcome your feedback. Contact Us (888)282-0870 Send us email Download PGP/GPG keys Submit website feedback Subscribe to Alerts Receive security alerts, tips, and other updates. Enter your email address HSIN Report Home Site Map FAQ Contact Us Traffic Light Protocol PCII Accountability Disclaimer Privacy Policy FOIA No Fear Act Accessibility Plain Writing Plug-ins Inspector General The White House USA.gov CISA is part of the Department of Homeland Security