Apple Updates for Multiple Vulnerabilities | CISA Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. CISA.gov Services Report Toggle navigation CISA.gov Services Report CertMain Menu Alerts and Tips Resources Industrial Control Systems TLP:WHITE TLP:WHITE National Cyber Awareness System > Alerts > Apple Updates for Multiple Vulnerabilities More Alerts Alert (TA08-350A) Apple Updates for Multiple Vulnerabilities Original release date: December 15, 2008  | Last revised : October 19, 2016 Systems Affected Systems running Mac OS X and Mac OS X Server Overview Apple has released Security Update 2008-008 and Mac OS X version 10.5.6 to correct multiple vulnerabilities affecting Apple Mac OS X and Mac OS X Server. Attackers could exploit these vulnerabilities to execute arbitrary code, gain access to sensitive information, or cause a denial of service. Description Apple Security Update 2008-008 and Apple Mac OS X version 10.5.6 address a number of vulnerabilities affecting Apple Mac OS X and Mac OS X Server versions prior to and including 10.4.11 and 10.5.5. The update also addresses vulnerabilities in other vendors' products that ship with Apple Mac OS X or Mac OS X Server. Impact The impacts of these vulnerabilities vary. Potential consequences include arbitrary code execution, sensitive information disclosure, denial of service, or privilege escalation. Solution Install Apple Security Update 2008-008 or Apple Mac OS X version 10.5.6. These and other updates are available via Software Update or via Apple Downloads . References Securing Your Web Browser About the security content of Security Update 2008-008 / Mac OS X v10.5.6 Mac OS X: Updating your software Apple Downloads Revisions December 15, 2008: Initial release This product is provided subject to this Notification and this Privacy & Use policy. Please share your thoughts. We recently updated our anonymous product survey ; we'd welcome your feedback. Contact Us (888)282-0870 Send us email Download PGP/GPG keys Submit website feedback Subscribe to Alerts Receive security alerts, tips, and other updates. Enter your email address HSIN Report Home Site Map FAQ Contact Us Traffic Light Protocol PCII Accountability Disclaimer Privacy Policy FOIA No Fear Act Accessibility Plain Writing Plug-ins Inspector General The White House USA.gov CISA is part of the Department of Homeland Security