Microsoft Security Updates for Windows, Internet Explorer, and Adobe Flash | CISA Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. CISA.gov Services Report Toggle navigation CISA.gov Services Report CertMain Menu Alerts and Tips Resources Industrial Control Systems TLP:WHITE TLP:WHITE National Cyber Awareness System > Archives Alerts > Microsoft Security Updates for Windows, Internet Explorer, and Adobe Flash This document is part of the US-CERT website archive. These documents are no longer updated and may contain outdated information. Links may also no longer function. Please contact info@us-cert.gov if you have any questions about the US-CERT website archive. More Alerts Alert (TA06-318A) Microsoft Security Updates for Windows, Internet Explorer, and Adobe Flash Original release date: November 14, 2006 Systems Affected Microsoft Windows Microsoft Internet Explorer Adobe Flash Overview Microsoft has released updates that address critical vulnerabilities in Microsoft Windows, Internet Explorer, and Adobe Flash. Exploitation of these vulnerabilities could allow a remote, unauthenticated attacker to execute arbitrary code or cause a denial of service on a vulnerable system. Description Microsoft has released updates to address vulnerabilities in Microsoft Windows, Internet Explorer, and Adobe Flash as part of the Microsoft Security Bulletin Summary for November 2006 .  The most severe vulnerabilities could allow a remote, unauthenticated attacker to execute arbitrary code or cause a denial of service on a vulnerable system.  Microsoft has included updates to Adobe Flash, which is installed with Internet Explorer. Further information is available in the Vulnerability Notes Database. Impact A remote, unauthenticated attacker could execute arbitrary code on a vulnerable system. An attacker may also be able to cause a denial of service. Solution Apply updates from Microsoft Microsoft has provided updates for these vulnerabilities in the November 2006 Security Bulletins .  The Security 
Bulletins describe any known issues related to the updates. Note any known issues described in the Bulletins and test for any potentially adverse affects in your environment. System administrators may wish to consider using Windows Server Update Services ( WSUS ). References US-CERT Vulnerability Notes for Microsoft November 2006 updates - http://www.kb.cert.org/vuls/byid?searchview&query=ms06-nov Securing Your Web Browser - http://www.us-cert.gov/reading_room/securing_browser/ Microsoft Security Bulletin Summary for November 2006 - http://www.microsoft.com/technet/security/bulletin/ms06-nov.mspx Microsoft Update - https://update.microsoft.com/microsoftupdate/ Windows Server Update Services - http://www.microsoft.com/windowsserversystem/updateservices/default.mspx Revision History November 14, 2006:  Initial release This product is provided subject to this Notification and this Privacy & Use policy. Please share your thoughts. We recently updated our anonymous product survey ; we'd welcome your feedback. Contact Us (888)282-0870 Send us email Download PGP/GPG keys Submit website feedback Subscribe to Alerts Receive security alerts, tips, and other updates. Enter your email address HSIN Report Home Site Map FAQ Contact Us Traffic Light Protocol PCII Accountability Disclaimer Privacy Policy FOIA No Fear Act Accessibility Plain Writing Plug-ins Inspector General The White House USA.gov CISA is part of the Department of Homeland Security