Microsoft Windows Kerberos KDC Remote Privilege Escalation Vulnerability | CISA Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. CISA.gov Services Report Toggle navigation CISA.gov Services Report CertMain Menu Alerts and Tips Resources Industrial Control Systems TLP:WHITE TLP:WHITE National Cyber Awareness System > Alerts > Microsoft Windows Kerberos KDC Remote Privilege Escalation Vulnerability More Alerts Alert (TA14-323A) Microsoft Windows Kerberos KDC Remote Privilege Escalation Vulnerability Original release date: November 19, 2014  | Last revised : September 30, 2016 Systems Affected Microsoft Windows Vista, 7, 8, and 8.1 Microsoft Server 2003, Server 2008, Server 2008 R2, Server 2012, and Server 2012 R2 Overview A remote escalation of privilege vulnerability exists in implementations of Kerberos Key Distribution Center (KDC) in Microsoft Windows which could allow a remote attacker to take control of a vulnerable system. [ 1 ] Description The Microsoft Windows Kerberos KDC fails to properly check service tickets for valid signatures, which can allow aspects of the service ticket to be forged. The improper check allows an attacker to escalate valid domain user account privileges to those of a domain administrator account, which renders the entire domain vulnerable to compromise. At the time this release was issued, Microsoft was aware of limited, targeted attacks attempting to exploit this vulnerability. Impact A valid domain user can pass invalid domain administrator credentials, gain access and compromise any system on the domain, including the domain controller. [ 2 ] Solution An update is available from Microsoft. Please see Microsoft Security Bulletin MS14-068 and Microsoft Research Security and Defense Blog for more details, and apply the necessary updates.[ 1 , 3 ] References [1] Microsoft Security Bulletin MS14-068 [2] Vulnerability Note VU#213119 [3] Microsoft Security Research and Defense Blog Revisions November 19, 2014: Initial Draft November 25, 2014: Revised formatting This product is provided subject to this Notification and this Privacy & Use policy. Please share your thoughts. We recently updated our anonymous product survey ; we'd welcome your feedback. Contact Us (888)282-0870 Send us email Download PGP/GPG keys Submit website feedback Subscribe to Alerts Receive security alerts, tips, and other updates. Enter your email address HSIN Report Home Site Map FAQ Contact Us Traffic Light Protocol PCII Accountability Disclaimer Privacy Policy FOIA No Fear Act Accessibility Plain Writing Plug-ins Inspector General The White House USA.gov CISA is part of the Department of Homeland Security